## 6.2.14.1.2 16-Bit Floating-Point Textures

The 16-bit floating-point or half format supported by CUDA arrays is the same as the IEEE 754-2008 binary2 format.

CUDA C++ does not support a matching data type, but provides intrinsic functions to convert to and from the 32-bit floating-point format via the unsigned short type: \_\_float2half\_rn(float) and \_half2float(unsigned short). These functions are only supported in device code. Equivalent functions for the host code can be found in the OpenEXR library, for example.

16-bit floating-point components are promoted to 32 bit float during texture fetching before any filtering is performed.

A channel description for the 16-bit floating-point format can be created by calling one of the cudaCreateChannelDescHalf\*() functions.

## 6.2.14.1.3 Layered Textures

A one-dimensional or two-dimensional layered texture (also known as texture array in Direct3D and array texture in OpenGL) is a texture made up of a sequence of layers, all of which are regular textures of same dimensionality, size, and data type.

A one-dimensional layered texture is addressed using an integer index and a floating-point texture coordinate; the index denotes a layer within the sequence and the coordinate addresses a texel within that layer. A two-dimensional layered texture is addressed using an integer index and two floatingpoint texture coordinates; the index denotes a layer within the sequence and the coordinates address a texel within that layer.

A layered texture can only be a CUDA array by calling cudaMalloc3DArray() with the cudaArray-Layered flag (and a height of zero for one-dimensional layered texture).

Layered textures are fetched using the device functions described in tex1DLayered() and tex2DLayered(). Texture filtering (see Texture Fetching) is done only within a layer, not across layers.

Layered textures are only supported on devices of compute capability 2.0 and higher.

## 6.2.14.1.4 Cubemap Textures

A cubemap texture is a special type of two-dimensional layered texture that has six layers representing the faces of a cube:

▶ The width of a layer is equal to its height.

▶ The cubemap is addressed using three texture coordinates x, y, and z that are interpreted as a direction vector emanating from the center of the cube and pointing to one face of the cube and a texel within the layer corresponding to that face. More specifically, the face is selected by the coordinate with largest magnitude m and the corresponding layer is addressed using coordinates (s/m+1)/2 and (t/m+1)/2 where s and t are defined in Table 6.

Table 6: Cubemap Fetch

<table><tr><td colspan="2"></td><td>face</td><td>m</td><td>s</td><td>t</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2"> $|x| > |y|$  and  $|x| > |z|$ </td><td>x □ 0</td><td>0</td><td>x</td><td>-z</td><td>-y</td></tr><tr><td>x &lt; 0</td><td>1</td><td>-x</td><td>z</td><td>-y</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2"> $|y| > |x|$  and  $|y| > |z|$ </td><td>y □ 0</td><td>2</td><td>y</td><td>x</td><td>z</td></tr><tr><td>y &lt; 0</td><td>3</td><td>-y</td><td>x</td><td>-z</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2"> $|z| > |x|$  and  $|z| > |y|$ </td><td>z □ 0</td><td>4</td><td>z</td><td>x</td><td>-y</td></tr><tr><td>z &lt; 0</td><td>5</td><td>-z</td><td>-x</td><td>-y</td></tr></table>

A cubemap texture can only be a CUDA array by calling cudaMalloc3DArray() with the cudaArray-Cubemap flag.

Cubemap textures are fetched using the device function described in texCubemap().

Cubemap textures are only supported on devices of compute capability 2.0 and higher.

## 6.2.14.1.5 Cubemap Layered Textures

A cubemap layered texture is a layered texture whose layers are cubemaps of same dimension.

A cubemap layered texture is addressed using an integer index and three floating-point texture coordinates; the index denotes a cubemap within the sequence and the coordinates address a texel within that cubemap.

A cubemap layered texture can only be a CUDA array by calling cudaMalloc3DArray() with the cudaArrayLayered and cudaArrayCubemap flags.

Cubemap layered textures are fetched using the device function described in texCubemapLayered(). Texture filtering (see Texture Fetching) is done only within a layer, not across layers.

Cubemap layered textures are only supported on devices of compute capability 2.0 and higher.

## 6.2.14.1.6 Texture Gather

Texture gather is a special texture fetch that is available for two-dimensional textures only. It is performed by the tex2Dgather() function, which has the same parameters as tex2D(), plus an additional comp parameter equal to 0, 1, 2, or 3 (see tex2Dgather()). It returns four 32-bit numbers that correspond to the value of the component comp of each of the four texels that would have been used for bilinear filtering during a regular texture fetch. For example, if these texels are of values (253, 20, 31, 255), (250, 25, 29, 254), (249, 16, 37, 253), (251, 22, 30, 250), and comp is 2, tex2Dgather() returns (31, 29, 37, 30).

Note that texture coordinates are computed with only 8 bits of fractional precision. tex2Dgather() may therefore return unexpected results for cases where tex2D() would use 1.0 for one of its weights (fi or fi, see Linear Filtering). For example, with an x texture coordinate of 2.49805: xB=x-0.5=1.99805, however the fractional part of xB is stored in an 8-bit fixed-point format. Since 0.99805 is closer to 256.f/256.f than it is to 255.f/256.f, xB has the value 2. A tex2Dgather() in this case would therefore return indices 2 and 3 in x, instead of indices 1 and 2.

Texture gather is only supported for CUDA arrays created with the cudaArrayTextureGather flag and of width and height less than the maximum specified in Table 27 for texture gather, which is smaller than for regular texture fetch.

Texture gather is only supported on devices of compute capability 2.0 and higher.

## 6.2.14.2 Surface Memory

For devices of compute capability 2.0 and higher, a CUDA array (described in Cubemap Surfaces), created with the cudaArraySurfaceLoadStore flag, can be read and written via a surface object using the functions described in Surface Functions.

Table 27 lists the maximum surface width, height, and depth depending on the compute capability of the device.

## 6.2.14.2.1 Surface Object API

A surface object is created using cudaCreateSurfaceObject() from a resource description of type struct cudaResourceDesc. Unlike texture memory, surface memory uses byte addressing. This means that the x-coordinate used to access a texture element via texture functions needs to be multiplied by the byte size of the element to access the same element via a surface function. For example, the element at texture coordinate x of a one-dimensional floating-point CUDA array bound to a texture object texObj and a surface object surfObj is read using tex1d(texObj, x) via texObj, but surf1Dread(surfObj, 4\*x) via surfObj. Similarly, the element at texture coordinate x and y of a two-dimensional floating-point CUDA array bound to a texture object texObj and a surface object surfObj is accessed using tex2d(texObj, x, y) via texObj, but surf2Dread(surfObj, 4\*x, y) via surObj (the byte ofset of the y-coordinate is internally calculated from the underlying line pitch of the CUDA array).

The following code sample applies some simple transformation kernel to a surface.

```cpp
// Simple copy kernel
__global__ void copyKernel(cudaSurfaceObject_t inputSurfObj,
                             cudaSurfaceObject_t outputSurfObj,
                             int width, int height)
{
    // Calculate surface coordinates
    unsigned int x = blockIdx.x * blockDim.x + threadIdx.x;
    unsigned int y = blockIdx.y * blockDim.y + threadIdx.y;
    if (x < width && y < height) {
        uchar4 data;
        // Read from input surface
        surf2Dread(&data, inputSurfObj, x * 4, y);
        // Write to output surface
        surf2Dwrite(data, outputSurfObj, x * 4, y);
    }
}

// Host code
int main()
{
    const int height = 1024;
    const int width = 1024;

    // Allocate and set some host data
    unsigned char *h_data =
        (unsigned char *)std::malloc(sizeof(unsigned char) * width * height * 4);
    for (int i = 0; i < height * width * 4; ++i)
        h_data[i] = i;

    // Allocate CUDA arrays in device memory
    cudaChannelFormatDesc channelDesc =
        cudaCreateChannelDesc(8, 8, 8, 8, cudaChannelFormatKindUnsigned);
    cudaArray_t cuInputArray;
    cudaMallocArray(&cuInputArray, &channelDesc, width, height,
                             cudaArraySurfaceLoadStore);
    cudaArray_t cuOutputArray;
    cudaMallocArray(&cuOutputArray, &channelDesc, width, height,
                             cudaArraySurfaceLoadStore);

    // Set pitch of the source (the width in memory in bytes of the 2D array
    // pointed to by src, including padding), we dont have any padding
    (continues on next page)
```

```c
const size_t spitch = 4 * width * sizeof(unsigned char);
// Copy data located at address h_data in host memory to device memory
cudaMemcpy2DToArray(cuInputArray, 0, 0, h_data, spitch,
                      4 * width * sizeof(unsigned char), height,
                      cudaMemcpyHostToDevice);

// Specify surface
struct cudaResourceDesc resDesc;
memset(&resDesc, 0, sizeof(resDesc));
resDesc.resType = cudaResourceTypeArray;

// Create the surface objects
resDesc.res.array.array = cuInputArray;
cudaSurfaceObject_t inputSurfObj = 0;
cudaCreateSurfaceObject(&inputSurfObj, &resDesc);
resDesc.res.array.array = cuOutputArray;
cudaSurfaceObject_t outputSurfObj = 0;
cudaCreateSurfaceObject(&outputSurfObj, &resDesc);

// Invoke kernel
dim3 threadsperBlock(16, 16);
dim3 numBlocks((width + threadsperBlock.x - 1) / threadsperBlock.x,
                     (height + threadsperBlock.y - 1) / threadsperBlock.y);
copyKernel<<<numBlocks, threadsperBlock>>>(inputSurfObj, outputSurfObj, width,
                             height);

// Copy data from device back to host
cudaMemcpy2DFromArray(h_data, spitch, cuOutputArray, 0, 0,
                       4 * width * sizeof(unsigned char), height,
                       cudaMemcpyDeviceToHost);

// Destroy surface objects
cudaDestroySurfaceObject(inputSurfObj);
cudaDestroySurfaceObject(outputSurfObj);

// Free device memory
cudaFreeArray(cuInputArray);
cudaFreeArray(cuOutputArray);

// Free host memory
free(h_data);

return 0;
```

## 6.2.14.2.2 Cubemap Surfaces

Cubemap surfaces are accessed usingsurfCubemapread() and surfCubemapwrite() (surfCubemapread() and surfCubemapwrite()) as a two-dimensional layered surface, i.e., using an integer index denoting a face and two floating-point texture coordinates addressing a texel within the layer corresponding to this face. Faces are ordered as indicated in Table 6.

## 6.2.14.2.3 Cubemap Layered Surfaces

Cubemap layered surfaces are accessed using surfCubemapLayeredread() and surfCubemapLayeredwrite() (surfCubemapLayeredread() and surfCubemapLayeredwrite()) as a two-dimensional layered surface, i.e., using an integer index denoting a face of one of the cubemaps and two floating-point texture coordinates addressing a texel within the layer corresponding to this face. Faces are ordered as indicated in Table 6, so index ((2 \* 6) + 3), for example, accesses the fourth face of the third cubemap.

## 6.2.14.3 CUDA Arrays

CUDA arrays are opaque memory layouts optimized for texture fetching. They are one dimensional, two dimensional, or three-dimensional and composed of elements, each of which has 1, 2 or 4 components that may be signed or unsigned 8-, 16-, or 32-bit integers, 16-bit floats, or 32-bit floats. CUDA arrays are only accessible by kernels through texture fetching as described in Texture Memory or surface reading and writing as described in Surface Memory.

## 6.2.14.4 Read/Write Coherency

The texture and surface memory is cached (see Device Memory Accesses) and within the same kernel call, the cache is not kept coherent with respect to global memory writes and surface memory writes, so any texture fetch or surface read to an address that has been written to via a global write or a surface write in the same kernel call returns undefined data. In other words, a thread can safely read some texture or surface memory location only if this memory location has been updated by a previous kernel call or memory copy, but not if it has been previously updated by the same thread or another thread from the same kernel call.

## 6.2.15. Graphics Interoperability

Some resources from OpenGL and Direct3D may be mapped into the address space of CUDA, either to enable CUDA to read data written by OpenGL or Direct3D, or to enable CUDA to write data for consumption by OpenGL or Direct3D.

A resource must be registered to CUDA before it can be mapped using the functions mentioned in OpenGL Interoperability and Direct3D Interoperability. These functions return a pointer to a CUDA graphics resource of type struct cudaGraphicsResource. Registering a resource is potentially high-overhead and therefore typically called only once per resource. A CUDA graphics resource is unregistered using cudaGraphicsUnregisterResource(). Each CUDA context which intends to use the resource is required to register it separately.

Once a resource is registered to CUDA, it can be mapped and unmapped as many times as necessary using cudaGraphicsMapResources() and cudaGraphicsUnmapResources(). cudaGraphicsResourceSetMapFlags() can be called to specify usage hints (write-only, read-only) that the CUDA driver can use to optimize resource management.

A mapped resource can be read from or written to by kernels using the device memory address returned by cudaGraphicsResourceGetMappedPointer() for bufers andcudaGraphicsSubResourceGetMappedArray() for CUDA arrays.

Accessing a resource through OpenGL, Direct3D, or another CUDA context while it is mapped produces undefined results. OpenGL Interoperability and Direct3D Interoperability give specifics for each graphics API and some code samples. SLI Interoperability gives specifics for when the system is in SLI mode.

## 6.2.15.1 OpenGL Interoperability

The OpenGL resources that may be mapped into the address space of CUDA are OpenGL bufer, texture, and renderbufer objects.

A bufer object is registered using cudaGraphicsGLRegisterBuffer(). In CUDA, it appears as a device pointer and can therefore be read and written by kernels or via cudaMemcpy() calls.

A texture or renderbufer object is registered using cudaGraphicsGLRegisterImage(). In CUDA, it appears as a CUDA array. Kernels can read from the array by binding it to a texture or surface reference. They can also write to it via the surface write functions if the resource has been registered with the cudaGraphicsRegisterFlagsSurfaceLoadStore flag. The array can also be read and written via cudaMemcpy2D() calls. cudaGraphicsGLRegisterImage() supports all texture formats with 1, 2, or 4 components and an internal type of float (for example, GL\_RGBA\_FLOAT32), normalized integer (for example, GL\_RGBA8, GL\_INTENSITY16), and unnormalized integer (for example, GL\_RGBA8UI) (please note that since unnormalized integer formats require OpenGL 3.0, they can only be written by shaders, not the fixed function pipeline).

The OpenGL context whose resources are being shared has to be current to the host thread making any OpenGL interoperability API calls.

Please note: When an OpenGL texture is made bindless (say for example by requesting an image or texture handle using the glGetTextureHandle\*/glGetImageHandle\* APIs) it cannot be registered with CUDA. The application needs to register the texture for interop before requesting an image or texture handle.

The following code sample uses a kernel to dynamically modify a 2D width x height grid of vertices stored in a vertex bufer object:

```c
GLuint positionsVBO;
struct cudaGraphicsResource* positionsVBO_CUDA;

int main()
{
    // Initialize OpenGL and GLUT for device 0
    // and make the OpenGL context current
    ...
    glutDisplayFunc(display);

    // Explicitly set device 0
    cudaSetDevice(0);

    // Create buffer object and register it with CUDA
    glGenBuffers(1, &positionsVBO);
    glBindBuffer(GL_ARRAY_BUFFER, positionsVBO);
    unsigned int size = width * height * 4 * sizeof(float);
    glBufferData(GL_ARRAY_BUFFER, size, 0, GL_DYNAMIC_DRAW);
    glBindBuffer(GL_ARRAY_BUFFER, 0);
```

(continues on next page)

```c
cudaGraphicsGLRegisterBuffer(&positionsVBO_CUDA,
                      positionsVBO,
                      cudaGraphicsMapFlagsWriteDiscard);

// Launch rendering loop
glutMainLoop();

...
}

void display()
{
    // Map buffer object for writing from CUDA
    float4* positions;
    cudaGraphicsMapResources(1, &positionsVBO_CUDA, 0);
    size_t num_bytes;
    cudaGraphicsResourceGetMappedPointer((void*)&positions,
                           &num_bytes,
                           positionsVBO_CUDA));

    // Execute kernel
    dim3 dimBlock(16, 16, 1);
    dim3 dimGrid(width / dimBlock.x, height / dimBlock.y, 1);
    createVertices<<<dimGrid, dimBlock>>>(positions, time,
                           width, height);

    // Unmap buffer object
    cudaGraphicsUnmapResources(1, &positionsVBO_CUDA, 0);

    // Render from buffer object
    glClear(GL_COLOR_BUFFER_BIT | GL_DEPTH_BUFFER_BIT);
    glBindBuffer(GL_ARRAY_BUFFER, positionsVBO);
    glVertexPointer(4, GL_FLOAT, 0, 0);
    glEnableClientState(GL_VERTEX_ARRAY);
    glDrawArrays(GL_POINTS, 0, width * height);
    glDisableClientState(GL_VERTEX_ARRAY);

    // Swap buffers
    glutSwapBuffers();
    glutPostRedisplay();
}

void deleteVBO()
{
    cudaGraphicsUnregisterResource(positionsVBO_CUDA);
    glDeleteBuffers(1, &positionsVBO);
}
__global__ void createVertices(float4* positions, float time,
                               unsigned int width, unsigned int height)
{
    unsigned int x = blockIdx.x * blockDim.x + threadIdx.x;
    unsigned int y = blockIdx.y * blockDim.y + threadIdx.y;

    // Calculate uv coordinates
    float u = x / (float)width;
```

```c
float v = y / (float)height;
u = u * 2.0f - 1.0f;
v = v * 2.0f - 1.0f;

// calculate simple sine wave pattern
float freq = 4.0f;
float w = sinf(u * freq + time)
       * cosf(v * freq + time) * 0.5f;

// Write positions
positions[y * width + x] = make_float4(u, w, v, 1.0f);
```

(continued from previous page)

On Windows and for Quadro GPUs, cudaWGLGetDevice() can be used to retrieve the CUDA device associated to the handle returned by wglEnumGpusNV(). Quadro GPUs ofer higher performance OpenGL interoperability than GeForce and Tesla GPUs in a multi-GPU configuration where OpenGL rendering is performed on the Quadro GPU and CUDA computations are performed on other GPUs in the system.

## 6.2.15.2 Direct3D Interoperability

Direct3D interoperability is supported for Direct3D 9Ex, Direct3D 10, and Direct3D 11.

A CUDA context may interoperate only with Direct3D devices that fulfill the following criteria: Direct3D 9Ex devices must be created with DeviceType set to D3DDEVTYPE\_HAL and BehaviorFlags with the D3DCREATE\_HARDWARE\_VERTEXPROCESSING flag; Direct3D 10 and Direct3D 11 devices must be created with DriverType set to D3D\_DRIVER\_TYPE\_HARDWARE.

The Direct3D resources that may be mapped into the address space of CUDA are Direct3D bufers, textures, and surfaces. These resources are registered using cudaGraphicsD3D9RegisterResource(), cudaGraphicsD3D10RegisterResource(), and cudaGraphicsD3D11RegisterResource().

The following code sample uses a kernel to dynamically modify a 2D width x height grid of vertices stored in a vertex bufer object.

## 6.2.15.2.1 Direct3D 9 Version

```c
IDirect3D9* D3D;
IDirect3DDevice9* device;
struct CUSTOMVERTEX {
    FLOAT x, y, z;
    DWORD color;
};
IDirect3DVertexBuffer9* positionsVB;
struct cudaGraphicsResource* positionsVB_CUDA;

int main()
{
    int dev;
    // Initialize Direct3D
    D3D = Direct3DCreate9Ex(D3D_SDK_VERSION);

    // Get a CUDA-enabled adapter
```

(continues on next page)

(continued from previous page)

```txt
unsigned int adapter = 0;
for (; adapter < g_pD3D->GetAdapterCount(); adapter++) {
    D3DADAPTER_IDENTIFIER9 adapterId;
    g_pD3D->GetAdapterIdentifier(adapter, 0, &adapterId);
    if (cudaD3D9GetDevice(&dev, adapterId.DeviceName)
        == cudaSuccess)
        break;
}

// Create device
...
D3D->CreateDeviceEx(adapter, D3DDEVTYPE_HAL, hWnd,
                    D3DCREATE_HARDWARE_VERTEXPROCESSING,
                    &params, NULL, &device);

// Use the same device
cudaSetDevice(dev);

// Create vertex buffer and register it with CUDA
unsigned int size = width * height * sizeof(CUSTOMVERTEX);
device->CreateVertexBuffer(size, 0, D3DFVF_CUSTOMVERTEX,
                             D3DPOOL_DEFAULT, &positionsVB, 0);
cudaGraphicsD3D9RegisterResource(&positionsVB_CUDA,
                             positionsVB,
                             cudaGraphicsRegisterFlagsNone);
cudaGraphicsResourceSetMapFlags(positionsVB_CUDA,
                             cudaGraphicsMapFlagsWriteDiscard);

// Launch rendering loop
while (...) {
    ...
    Render();
    ...
}
...
```

```cpp
void Render()
{
    // Map vertex buffer for writing from CUDA
    float4* positions;
    cudaGraphicsMapResources(1, &positionsVB_CUDA, 0);
    size_t num_bytes;
    cudaGraphicsResourceGetMappedPointer((void**)&positions,
                             &num_bytes,
                             positionsVB_CUDA));

    // Execute kernel
    dim3 dimBlock(16, 16, 1);
    dim3 dimGrid(width / dimBlock.x, height / dimBlock.y, 1);
    createVertices<<<dimGrid, dimBlock>>>(positions, time,
                             width, height);

    // Unmap vertex buffer
    cudaGraphicsUnmapResources(1, &positionsVB_CUDA, 0);
```

(continues on next page)

(continued from previous page)

```lisp
// Draw and present
...
}

void releaseVB()
{
    cudaGraphicsUnregisterResource(positionsVB_CUDA);
    positionsVB->Release();
}

__global__ void createVertices(float4* positions, float time,
                                unsigned int width, unsigned int height)
{
    unsigned int x = blockIdx.x * blockDim.x + threadIdx.x;
    unsigned int y = blockIdx.y * blockDim.y + threadIdx.y;

    // Calculate uv coordinates
    float u = x / (float)width;
    float v = y / (float)height;
    u = u * 2.0f - 1.0f;
    v = v * 2.0f - 1.0f;

    // Calculate simple sine wave pattern
    float freq = 4.0f;
    float w = sinf(u * freq + time)
        * cosf(v * freq + time) * 0.5f;

    // Write positions
    positions[y * width + x] =
        make_float4(u, w, v, __int_as_float(0xff00ff00));
}
```
