The following code sample configures an occupancy-based kernel launch of MyKernel according to the user input.

```c
// Device code
__global__ void MyKernel(int *array, int arrayCount)
{
    int idx = threadIdx.x + blockIdx.x * blockDim.x;
    if (idx < arrayCount) {
        array[idx] *= array[idx];
    }
}

// Host code
int launchMyKernel(int *array, int arrayCount)
{
    int blockSize;      // The launch configurator returned block size
    int minGridSize;     // The minimum grid size needed to achieve the
                                   // maximum occupancy for a full device
                                   // launch
    int gridSize;       // The actual grid size needed, based on input
                                   // size

    cudaOccupancyMaxPotentialBlockSize(
        &minGridSize,
        &blockSize,
        (void*)MyKernel,
        0,
        arrayCount);

    // Round up according to array size
    gridSize = (arrayCount + blockSize - 1) / blockSize;

    MyKernel<<<gridSize, blockSize>>>(array, arrayCount);
    cudaDeviceSynchronize();

    // If interested, the occupancy can be calculated with
    // cudaOccupancyMaxActiveBlocksPerMultiprocessor

    return 0;
}
```

The following code sample shows how to use the cluster occupancy API to find the max number of active clusters of a given size. Example code below calcualtes occupancy for cluster of size 2 and 128 threads per block.

Cluster size of 8 is forward compatible starting compute capability 9.0, except on GPU hardware or MIG configurations which are too small to support 8 multiprocessors in which case the maximum cluster size will be reduced. But it is recommended that the users query the maximum cluster size before launching a cluster kernel. Max cluster size can be queried using cudaOccupancyMaxPotential-ClusterSize API.

```txt
{
cudaLaunchConfig_t config = {0};
config.gridDim = number_of_blocks;
config.blockDim = 128; // threads_per_block = 128
config.dynamicSmemBytes = dynamic_shared_memory_size;

cudaLaunchAttribute attribute[1];
attribute[0].id = cudaLaunchAttributeClusterDimension;
attribute[0].val.clusterDim.x = 2; // cluster_size = 2
attribute[0].val.clusterDim.y = 1;
attribute[0].val.clusterDim.z = 1;
config.attrs = attribute;
config.numAttrs = 1;

int max_cluster_size = 0;
cudaOccupancyMaxPotentialClusterSize(&max_cluster_size, (void *)kernel, &config);

int max_active_clusters = 0;
cudaOccupancyMaxActiveClusters(&max_active_clusters, (void *)kernel, &config);

std::cout << "Max Active Clusters of size 2: " << max_active_clusters << std::endl;
}
```

The CUDA Nsight Compute User Interface also provides a standalone occupancy calculator and launch configurator implementation in <CUDA\_Toolkit\_Path>∕include∕cuda\_occupancy.h for any use cases that cannot depend on the CUDA software stack. The Nsight Compute version of the occupancy calculator is particularly useful as a learning tool that visualizes the impact of changes to the parameters that afect occupancy (block size, registers per thread, and shared memory per thread).

## 8.3. Maximize Memory Throughput

The first step in maximizing overall memory throughput for the application is to minimize data transfers with low bandwidth.

That means minimizing data transfers between the host and the device, as detailed in Data Transfer between Host and Device, since these have much lower bandwidth than data transfers between global memory and the device.

That also means minimizing data transfers between global memory and the device by maximizing use of on-chip memory: shared memory and caches (i.e., L1 cache and L2 cache available on devices of compute capability 2.x and higher, texture cache and constant cache available on all devices).

Shared memory is equivalent to a user-managed cache: The application explicitly allocates and accesses it. As illustrated in CUDA Runtime, a typical programming pattern is to stage data coming from device memory into shared memory; in other words, to have each thread of a block:

Load data from device memory to shared memory,

Synchronize with all the other threads of the block so that each thread can safely read shared memory locations that were populated by diferent threads,

Process the data in shared memory,

▶ Synchronize again if necessary to make sure that shared memory has been updated with the results,

▶ Write the results back to device memory.

For some applications (for example, for which global memory access patterns are data-dependent), a traditional hardware-managed cache is more appropriate to exploit data locality. As mentioned in Compute Capability 7.x, Compute Capability 8.x and Compute Capability 9.0, for devices of compute capability 7.x, 8.x and 9.0, the same on-chip memory is used for both L1 and shared memory, and how much of it is dedicated to L1 versus shared memory is configurable for each kernel call.

The throughput of memory accesses by a kernel can vary by an order of magnitude depending on access pattern for each type of memory. The next step in maximizing memory throughput is therefore to organize memory accesses as optimally as possible based on the optimal memory access patterns described in Device Memory Accesses. This optimization is especially important for global memory accesses as global memory bandwidth is low compared to available on-chip bandwidths and arithmetic instruction throughput, so non-optimal global memory accesses generally have a high impact on performance.

## 8.3.1. Data Transfer between Host and Device

Applications should strive to minimize data transfer between the host and the device. One way to accomplish this is to move more code from the host to the device, even if that means running kernels that do not expose enough parallelism to execute on the device with full eficiency. Intermediate data structures may be created in device memory, operated on by the device, and destroyed without ever being mapped by the host or copied to host memory.

Also, because of the overhead associated with each transfer, batching many small transfers into a single large transfer always performs better than making each transfer separately.

On systems with a front-side bus, higher performance for data transfers between host and device is achieved by using page-locked host memory as described in Page-Locked Host Memory.

In addition, when using mapped page-locked memory (Mapped Memory), there is no need to allocate any device memory and explicitly copy data between device and host memory. Data transfers are implicitly performed each time the kernel accesses the mapped memory. For maximum performance, these memory accesses must be coalesced as with accesses to global memory (see Device Memory Accesses). Assuming that they are and that the mapped memory is read or written only once, using mapped page-locked memory instead of explicit copies between device and host memory can be a win for performance.

On integrated systems where device memory and host memory are physically the same, any copy between host and device memory is superfluous and mapped page-locked memory should be used instead. Applications may query a device is integrated by checking that the integrated device property (see Device Enumeration) is equal to 1.

## 8.3.2. Device Memory Accesses

An instruction that accesses addressable memory (i.e., global, local, shared, constant, or texture memory) might need to be re-issued multiple times depending on the distribution of the memory addresses across the threads within the warp. How the distribution afects the instruction throughput this way is specific to each type of memory and described in the following sections. For example, for global memory, as a general rule, the more scattered the addresses are, the more reduced the throughput is.

## Global Memory

Global memory resides in device memory and device memory is accessed via 32-, 64-, or 128-byte memory transactions. These memory transactions must be naturally aligned: Only the 32-, 64-, or 128- byte segments of device memory that are aligned to their size (i.e., whose first address is a multiple of their size) can be read or written by memory transactions.

When a warp executes an instruction that accesses global memory, it coalesces the memory accesses of the threads within the warp into one or more of these memory transactions depending on the size of the word accessed by each thread and the distribution of the memory addresses across the threads. In general, the more transactions are necessary, the more unused words are transferred in addition to the words accessed by the threads, reducing the instruction throughput accordingly. For example, if a 32-byte memory transaction is generated for each thread’s 4-byte access, throughput is divided by 8.

How many transactions are necessary and how much throughput is ultimately afected varies with the compute capability of the device. Compute Capability 5.x, Compute Capability 6.x, Compute Capability 7.x, Compute Capability 8.x, Compute Capability 9.0, Compute Capability 10.0, and Compute Capability 12.0 give more details on how global memory accesses are handled for various compute capabilities.

To maximize global memory throughput, it is therefore important to maximize coalescing by:

▶ Following the most optimal access patterns based on Compute Capability 5.x, Compute Capability 6.x, Compute Capability 7.x, Compute Capability 8.x, Compute Capability 9.0, Compute Capability 10.0, and Compute Capability 12.0.

▶ Using data types that meet the size and alignment requirement detailed in the section Size and Alignment Requirement below,

Padding data in some cases, for example, when accessing a two-dimensional array as described in the section Two-Dimensional Arrays below.

## Size and Alignment Requirement

Global memory instructions support reading or writing words of size equal to 1, 2, 4, 8, or 16 bytes. Any access (via a variable or a pointer) to data residing in global memory compiles to a single global memory instruction if and only if the size of the data type is 1, 2, 4, 8, or 16 bytes and the data is naturally aligned (i.e., its address is a multiple of that size).

If this size and alignment requirement is not fulfilled, the access compiles to multiple instructions with interleaved access patterns that prevent these instructions from fully coalescing. It is therefore recommended to use types that meet this requirement for data that resides in global memory.

The alignment requirement is automatically fulfilled for the Built-in Vector Types.

For structures, the size and alignment requirements can be enforced by the compiler using the alignment specifiers\_\_align\_\_(8) or \_\_align\_\_(16), such as

```cpp
struct __align__(8) {
    float x;
    float y;
};
```

```txt
struct __align__(16) {
    float x;
    float y;
    float z;
};
```

Any address of a variable residing in global memory or returned by one of the memory allocation routines from the driver or runtime API is always aligned to at least 256 bytes.

Reading non-naturally aligned 8-byte or 16-byte words produces incorrect results (of by a few words), so special care must be taken to maintain alignment of the starting address of any value or array of values of these types. A typical case where this might be easily overlooked is when using some custom global memory allocation scheme, whereby the allocations of multiple arrays (with multiple calls to cudaMalloc() or cuMemAlloc()) is replaced by the allocation of a single large block of memory partitioned into multiple arrays, in which case the starting address of each array is ofset from the block’s starting address.

## Two-Dimensional Arrays

A common global memory access pattern is when each thread of index (tx,ty) uses the following address to access one element of a 2D array of width width, located at address BaseAddress of type type\* (where type meets the requirement described in Maximize Utilization):

```txt
BaseAddress + width * ty + tx
```

For these accesses to be fully coalesced, both the width of the thread block and the width of the array must be a multiple of the warp size.

In particular, this means that an array whose width is not a multiple of this size will be accessed much more eficiently if it is actually allocated with a width rounded up to the closest multiple of this size and its rows padded accordingly. The cudaMallocPitch() and cuMemAllocPitch() functions and associated memory copy functions described in the reference manual enable programmers to write non-hardware-dependent code to allocate arrays that conform to these constraints.

## Local Memory

Local memory accesses only occur for some automatic variables as mentioned in Variable Memory Space Specifiers. Automatic variables that the compiler is likely to place in local memory are:

▶ Arrays for which it cannot determine that they are indexed with constant quantities,

▶ Large structures or arrays that would consume too much register space,

Any variable if the kernel uses more registers than available (this is also known as register spilling).

Inspection of the PTX assembly code (obtained by compiling with the -ptx or-keep option) will tell if a variable has been placed in local memory during the first compilation phases as it will be declared using the .local mnemonic and accessed using the ld.local and st.local mnemonics. Even if it has not, subsequent compilation phases might still decide otherwise though if they find it consumes too much register space for the targeted architecture: Inspection of the cubin object using cuobjdump will tell if this is the case. Also, the compiler reports total local memory usage per kernel (lmem) when compiling with the --ptxas-options=-v option. Note that some mathematical functions have implementation paths that might access local memory.

The local memory space resides in device memory, so local memory accesses have the same high latency and low bandwidth as global memory accesses and are subject to the same requirements for memory coalescing as described in Device Memory Accesses. Local memory is however organized such that consecutive 32-bit words are accessed by consecutive thread IDs. Accesses are therefore fully coalesced as long as all threads in a warp access the same relative address (for example, same index in an array variable, same member in a structure variable).

On devices of compute capability 5.x onwards, local memory accesses are always cached in L2 in the same way as global memory accesses (see Compute Capability 5.x and Compute Capability 6.x).

## Shared Memory

Because it is on-chip, shared memory has much higher bandwidth and much lower latency than local or global memory.

To achieve high bandwidth, shared memory is divided into equally-sized memory modules, called banks, which can be accessed simultaneously. Any memory read or write request made of n addresses that fall in n distinct memory banks can therefore be serviced simultaneously, yielding an overall bandwidth that is n times as high as the bandwidth of a single module.

However, if two addresses of a memory request fall in the same memory bank, there is a bank conflict and the access has to be serialized. The hardware splits a memory request with bank conflicts into as many separate conflict-free requests as necessary, decreasing throughput by a factor equal to the number of separate memory requests. If the number of separate memory requests is n, the initial memory request is said to cause n-way bank conflicts.

To get maximum performance, it is therefore important to understand how memory addresses map to memory banks in order to schedule the memory requests so as to minimize bank conflicts. This is described in Compute Capability 5.x, Compute Capability 6.x, Compute Capability 7.x, Compute Capability 8.x, Compute Capability 9.0, Compute Capability 10.0, and Compute Capability 12.0 for devices of these compute capabilities respectively.

## Constant Memory

The constant memory space resides in device memory and is cached in the constant cache.

A request is then split into as many separate requests as there are diferent memory addresses in the initial request, decreasing throughput by a factor equal to the number of separate requests.

The resulting requests are then serviced at the throughput of the constant cache in case of a cache hit, or at the throughput of device memory otherwise.

## Texture and Surface Memory

The texture and surface memory spaces reside in device memory and are cached in texture cache, so a texture fetch or surface read costs one memory read from device memory only on a cache miss, otherwise it just costs one read from texture cache. The texture cache is optimized for 2D spatial locality, so threads of the same warp that read texture or surface addresses that are close together in 2D will achieve best performance. Also, it is designed for streaming fetches with a constant latency; a cache hit reduces DRAM bandwidth demand but not fetch latency.

Reading device memory through texture or surface fetching present some benefits that can make it an advantageous alternative to reading device memory from global or constant memory:

If the memory reads do not follow the access patterns that global or constant memory reads must follow to get good performance, higher bandwidth can be achieved providing that there is locality in the texture fetches or surface reads;

▶ Addressing calculations are performed outside the kernel by dedicated units;

▶ Packed data may be broadcast to separate variables in a single operation;

▶ 8-bit and 16-bit integer input data may be optionally converted to 32 bit floating-point values in the range [0.0, 1.0] or [-1.0, 1.0] (see Texture Memory).

## 8.4. Maximize Instruction Throughput

See the CUDA C++ Best Practices Guide for more details on optimizing instruction throughput.

## 8.5. Minimize Memory Thrashing

Applications that constantly allocate and free memory too often may find that the allocation calls tend to get slower over time up to a limit. This is typically expected due to the nature of releasing memory back to the operating system for its own use. For best performance in this regard, we recommend the following:

▶ Try to size your allocation to the problem at hand. Don’t try to allocate all available memory with cudaMalloc / cudaMallocHost / cuMemCreate, as this forces memory to be resident immediately and prevents other applications from being able to use that memory. This can put more pressure on operating system schedulers, or just prevent other applications using the same GPU from running entirely.

Try to allocate memory in appropriately sized allocations early in the application and allocations only when the application does not have any use for it. Reduce the number of cudaMalloc+cudaFree calls in the application, especially in performance-critical regions.

▶ If an application cannot allocate enough device memory, consider falling back on other memory types such as cudaMallocHost or cudaMallocManaged, which may not be as performant, but will enable the application to make progress.

For platforms that support the feature, cudaMallocManaged allows for oversubscription, and with the correct cudaMemAdvise policies enabled, will allow the application to retain most if not all the performance of cudaMalloc. cudaMallocManaged also won’t force an allocation to be resident until it is needed or prefetched, reducing the overall pressure on the operating system schedulers and better enabling multi-tenet use cases.

## Chapter 9. CUDA-Enabled GPUs

Warning: This document has been replaced by a new CUDA Programming Guide. The information in this document should be considered legacy, and this document is no longer being updated as of CUDA 13.0. Please refer to the CUDA Programming Guide for up-to-date information on CUDA.

https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus lists all CUDA-enabled devices with their compute capability. The compute capability, number of multiprocessors, clock frequency, total amount of device memory, and other properties can be queried using the runtime (see reference manual).

## Chapter 10. C++ Language Extensions

Warning: This document has been replaced by a new CUDA Programming Guide. The information in this document should be considered legacy, and this document is no longer being updated as of CUDA 13.0. Please refer to the CUDA Programming Guide for up-to-date information on CUDA.

## 10.1. Function Execution Space Specifiers

Function execution space specifiers denote whether a function executes on the host or on the device and whether it is callable from the host or from the device.

## 10.1.1. \_\_global\_\_

The \_\_global\_\_ execution space specifier declares a function as being a kernel. Such a function is:

Executed on the device,

▶ Callable from the host,

Callable from the device for devices of compute capability 5.0 or higher (see CUDA Dynamic Parallelism for more details).

A \_\_global\_\_ function must have void return type, and cannot be a member of a class.

Any call to a \_\_global\_\_ function must specify its execution configuration as described in Execution Configuration.

A call to a \_\_global\_\_ function is asynchronous, meaning it returns before the device has completed its execution.

## 10.1.2. \_\_device\_\_

The \_\_device\_\_ execution space specifier declares a function that is:

Executed on the device,

▶ Callable from the device only.

The \_\_global\_\_ and \_\_device\_\_ execution space specifiers cannot be used together.

## 10.1.3. \_\_host\_\_

The \_\_host\_\_ execution space specifier declares a function that is:

▶ Executed on the host,

Callable from the host only.

It is equivalent to declare a function with only the \_\_host\_\_ execution space specifier or to declare it without any of the \_\_host\_\_, \_\_device\_\_, or \_\_global\_\_ execution space specifier; in either case the function is compiled for the host only.

The \_\_global\_\_ and \_\_host\_\_ execution space specifiers cannot be used together.

The \_\_device\_\_ and \_\_host\_\_ execution space specifiers can be used together however, in which case the function is compiled for both the host and the device. The \_\_CUDA\_ARCH\_\_ macro introduced in Application Compatibility can be used to diferentiate code paths between host and device:

```c
__host__ __device__ func()
{
#if __CUDA_ARCH__ >= 800
    // Device code path for compute capability 8.x
#elif __CUDA_ARCH__ >= 700
    // Device code path for compute capability 7.x
#elif __CUDA_ARCH__ >= 600
    // Device code path for compute capability 6.x
#elif __CUDA_ARCH__ >= 500
    // Device code path for compute capability 5.x
#elif !defined(__CUDA_ARCH__)
    // Host code path
#endif
}
```

## 10.1.4. Undefined behavior

A ‘cross-execution space’ call has undefined behavior when:

▶ \_\_CUDA\_ARCH\_\_ is defined, a call from within a \_\_global\_\_, \_\_device\_\_ or \_\_host\_\_ \_\_device\_\_ function to a \_\_host\_\_ function.

▶ \_\_CUDA\_ARCH\_\_ is undefined, a call from within a \_\_host\_\_ function to a \_\_device\_\_ function.<sup>4</sup>

## 10.1.5. \_\_noinline\_\_ and \_\_forceinline\_

The compiler inlines any \_\_device\_\_ function when deemed appropriate.

The \_\_noinline\_\_ function qualifier can be used as a hint for the compiler not to inline the function if possible.

The \_\_forceinline\_\_ function qualifier can be used to force the compiler to inline the function.

The \_\_noinline\_\_ and \_\_forceinline\_\_ function qualifiers cannot be used together, and neither function qualifier can be applied to an inline function.

## 10.1.6. \_\_inline\_hint\_\_

The \_\_inline\_hint\_\_ qualifier enables more aggressive inlining in the compiler. Unlike \_\_forceinline\_\_, it does not imply that the function is inline. It can be used to improve inlining across modules when using LTO.

Neither the \_\_noinline\_\_ nor the \_\_forceinline\_\_ function qualifier can be used with the \_\_inline\_hint\_\_ function qualifier.

## 10.2. Variable Memory Space Specifiers

Variable memory space specifiers denote the memory location on the device of a variable.

An automatic variable declared in device code without any of the \_\_device\_\_, \_\_shared\_\_ and \_\_constant\_\_ memory space specifiers described in this section generally resides in a register. However in some cases the compiler might choose to place it in local memory, which can have adverse performance consequences as detailed in Device Memory Accesses.

## 10.2.1. \_\_device\_\_

The \_\_device\_\_ memory space specifier declares a variable that resides on the device.

At most one of the other memory space specifiers defined in the next three sections may be used together with \_\_device\_\_ to further denote which memory space the variable belongs to. If none of them is present, the variable:

▶ Resides in global memory space,

▶ Has the lifetime of the CUDA context in which it is created,

Has a distinct object per device,

▶ Is accessible from all the threads within the grid and from the host through the runtime library (cudaGetSymbolAddress() / cudaGetSymbolSize() / cudaMemcpyToSymbol() / cudaMemcpyFromSymbol()).

## 10.2.2. \_\_constant\_\_

The \_\_constant\_\_ memory space specifier, optionally used together with \_\_device\_\_, declares a variable that:

▶ Resides in constant memory space,

▶ Has the lifetime of the CUDA context in which it is created,

▶ Has a distinct object per device,

▶ Is accessible from all the threads within the grid and from the host through the runtime library (cudaGetSymbolAddress() / cudaGetSymbolSize() / cudaMemcpyToSymbol() / cudaMemcpyFromSymbol()).

The behavior of modifying a constant from the host while there is a concurrent grid that access that constant at any point of this grid’s lifetime is undefined.

## 10.2.3. \_\_shared\_\_

The \_\_shared\_\_ memory space specifier, optionally used together with \_\_device\_\_, declares a variable that:

▶ Resides in the shared memory space of a thread block,

▶ Has the lifetime of the block,

▶ Has a distinct object per block,

▶ Is only accessible from all the threads within the block,

Does not have a constant address.

When declaring a variable in shared memory as an external array such as

```txt
extern __shared__ float shared[];
```

the size of the array is determined at launch time (see Execution Configuration). All variables declared in this fashion, start at the same address in memory, so that the layout of the variables in the array must be explicitly managed through ofsets. For example, if one wants the equivalent of

```javascript
short array0[128];
float array1[64];
int array2[256];
```

in dynamically allocated shared memory, one could declare and initialize the arrays the following way:

```lisp
extern __shared__ float array[];
__device__ void func()      // __device__ or __global__ function
{
    short* array0 = (short*)array;
    float* array1 = (float*)&array0[128];
    int*   array2 =   (int*)&array1[64];
}
```

Note that pointers need to be aligned to the type they point to, so the following code, for example, does not work since array1 is not aligned to 4 bytes.

```lisp
extern __shared__ float array[];
__device__ void func()      // __device__ or __global__ function
{
    short* array0 = (short*)array;
    float* array1 = (float*)&array0[127];
}
```

Alignment requirements for the built-in vector types are listed in Table 7.

## 10.2.4. \_\_grid\_constant\_

The \_\_grid\_constant\_\_ annotation for compute architectures greater or equal to 7.0 annotates a const-qualified \_\_global\_\_ function parameter of non-reference type that:

▶ Has the lifetime of the grid,

▶ Is private to the grid, i.e., the object is not accessible to host threads and threads from other grids, including sub-grids,

▶ Has a distinct object per grid, i.e., all threads in the grid see the same address,

Is read-only, i.e., modifying a \_\_grid\_constant\_\_ object or any of its sub-objects is undefined behavior, including mutable members.

## Requirements:

Kernel parameters annotated with \_\_grid\_constant\_\_ must have const-qualified nonreference types.

▶ All function declarations must match with respect to any \_\_grid\_constant\_ parameters.

▶ A function template specialization must match the primary template declaration with respect to any \_\_grid\_constant\_\_ parameters.

▶ A function template instantiation directive must match the primary template declaration with respect to any \_\_grid\_constant\_\_ parameters.

If the address of a \_\_global\_\_ function parameter is taken, the compiler will ordinarily make a copy of the kernel parameter in thread local memory and use the address of the copy, to partially support C++ semantics, which allow each thread to modify its own local copy of function parameters. Annotating a \_\_global\_\_ function parameter with \_\_grid\_constant\_\_ ensures that the compiler will not create a copy of the kernel parameter in thread local memory, but will instead use the generic address of the parameter itself. Avoiding the local copy may result in improved performance.

```javascript
__device__ void unknown_function(S const&);
__global__ void kernel(const __grid_constant__ S s) {
    s.x += threadIdx.x;  // Undefined Behavior: tried to modify read-only memory

    // Compiler will _not_ create a per-thread thread local copy of "s":
    unknown_function(s);
}
```

## 10.2.5. \_\_managed

The \_\_managed\_\_ memory space specifier, optionally used together with \_\_device\_\_, declares a variable that:

▶ Can be referenced from both device and host code, for example, its address can be taken or it can be read or written directly from a device or host function.

▶ Has the lifetime of an application.

See \_\_managed\_\_ Memory Space Specifier for more details.

## 10.2.6. \_\_restrict\_\_

nvcc supports restricted pointers via the \_\_restrict\_\_ keyword.

Restricted pointers were introduced in C99 to alleviate the aliasing problem that exists in C-type languages, and which inhibits all kind of optimization from code re-ordering to common sub-expression elimination.

Here is an example subject to the aliasing issue, where use of restricted pointer can help the compiler to reduce the number of instructions:

```txt
void foo(const float* a,
            const float* b,
            float* c)
{
    c[0] = a[0] * b[0];
    c[1] = a[0] * b[0];
    c[2] = a[0] * b[0] * a[1];
    c[3] = a[0] * a[1];
    c[4] = a[0] * b[0];
    c[5] = b[0];
    ...
}
```

In C-type languages, the pointers a, b, and c may be aliased, so any write through c could modify elements of a or b. This means that to guarantee functional correctness, the compiler cannot load a[0] and b[0] into registers, multiply them, and store the result to both c[0] and c[1], because the results would difer from the abstract execution model if, say, a[0] is really the same location as c[0]. So the compiler cannot take advantage of the common sub-expression. Likewise, the compiler cannot just reorder the computation of c[4] into the proximity of the computation of c[0] and c[1] because the preceding write to c[3] could change the inputs to the computation of c[4].

By making a, b, and c restricted pointers, the programmer asserts to the compiler that the pointers are in fact not aliased, which in this case means writes through c would never overwrite elements of a or b. This changes the function prototype as follows:

```c
void foo(const float* __restrict__ a,
        const float* __restrict__ b,
        float* __restrict__ c);
```

Note that all pointer arguments need to be made restricted for the compiler optimizer to derive any benefit. With the \_\_restrict\_\_ keywords added, the compiler can now reorder and do common sub-expression elimination at will, while retaining functionality identical with the abstract execution model:

```lisp
void foo(const float* __restrict__ a,
        const float* __restrict__ b,
        float* __restrict__ c)
{
    float t0 = a[0];
    float t1 = b[0];
    float t2 = t0 * t1;
    float t3 = a[1];
    c[0] = t2;
    c[1] = t2;
    c[4] = t2;
    c[2] = t2 * t3;
    c[3] = t0 * t3;
    c[5] = t1;
    ...
}
```

The efects here are a reduced number of memory accesses and reduced number of computations. This is balanced by an increase in register pressure due to “cached” loads and common subexpressions.

Since register pressure is a critical issue in many CUDA codes, use of restricted pointers can have negative performance impact on CUDA code, due to reduced occupancy.

## 10.3. Built-in Vector Types

## 10.3.1. char, short, int, long, longlong, float, double

These are vector types derived from the basic integer and floating-point types. They are structures and the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th components are accessible through the fields x, y, z, and w, respectively. They all come with a constructor function of the form make\_<type name>; for example,

```txt
int2 make_int2(int x, int y);
```

which creates a vector of type int2 with value(x, y).

The alignment requirements of the vector types are detailed in Table 7.

Table 7: Alignment Requirements

<table><tr><td>Type</td><td>Alignment</td></tr><tr><td>char1, uchar1</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>char2, uchar2</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>char3, uchar3</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>char4, uchar4</td><td>4</td></tr><tr><td>short1, ushort1</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>short2, ushort2</td><td>4</td></tr></table>

continues on next page

Table 7 – continued from previous page

<table><tr><td>Type</td><td>Alignment</td></tr><tr><td>short3, ushort3</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>short4, ushort4</td><td>8</td></tr><tr><td>int1, uint1</td><td>4</td></tr><tr><td>int2, uint2</td><td>8</td></tr><tr><td>int3, uint3</td><td>4</td></tr><tr><td>int4, uint4</td><td>16</td></tr><tr><td>long1, ulong1</td><td>4 if sizeof(long) is equal to sizeof(int) 8, otherwise</td></tr><tr><td>long2, ulong2</td><td>8 if sizeof(long) is equal to sizeof(int), 16, otherwise</td></tr><tr><td>long3, ulong3</td><td>4 if sizeof(long) is equal to sizeof(int), 8, otherwise</td></tr><tr><td>long $4^3$ </td><td rowspan="2">16</td></tr><tr><td>long4_16a</td></tr><tr><td>long4_32a</td><td>32</td></tr><tr><td>ulong $4^{Page\ 167,\ 3}$ </td><td rowspan="2">16</td></tr><tr><td>ulong4_16a</td></tr><tr><td>ulong4_32a</td><td>32</td></tr><tr><td>longlong1, ulonglong1</td><td>8</td></tr><tr><td>longlong2, ulonglong2</td><td>16</td></tr><tr><td>longlong3, ulonglong3</td><td>8</td></tr><tr><td>longlong $4^{Page\ 167,\ 3}$ </td><td rowspan="2">16</td></tr><tr><td>longlong4_16a</td></tr><tr><td>longlong4_32a</td><td>32</td></tr><tr><td>ulonglong $4^{Page\ 167,\ 3}$ </td><td rowspan="2">16</td></tr><tr><td>ulonglong4_16a</td></tr><tr><td>ulonglong4_32a</td><td>32</td></tr><tr><td>float1</td><td>4</td></tr><tr><td>float2</td><td>8</td></tr><tr><td>float3</td><td>4</td></tr><tr><td>float4</td><td>16</td></tr><tr><td>double1</td><td>8</td></tr><tr><td>double2</td><td>16</td></tr><tr><td>double3</td><td>8</td></tr></table>

continues on next page

Table 7 – continued from previous page

<table><tr><td>Type</td><td>Alignment</td></tr><tr><td>double4Page 167, 3</td><td rowspan="2">16</td></tr><tr><td>double4_16a</td></tr><tr><td>double4_32a</td><td>32</td></tr></table>

## 10.3.2. dim3

This type is an integer vector type based on uint3 that is used to specify dimensions. When defining a variable of type dim3, any component left unspecified is initialized to 1.

## 10.4. Built-in Variables

Built-in variables specify the grid and block dimensions and the block and thread indices. They are only valid within functions that are executed on the device.

## 10.4.1. gridDim

This variable is of type dim3 (see dim3) and contains the dimensions of the grid.

## 10.4.2. blockIdx

This variable is of type uint3 (see char, short, int, long, longlong, float, double) and contains the block index within the grid.

## 10.4.3. blockDim

This variable is of type dim3 (see dim3) and contains the dimensions of the block.

## 10.4.4. threadIdx

This variable is of type uint3 (see char, short, int, long, longlong, float, double) and contains the thread index within the block.

## 10.4.5. warpSize

This variable is of type int and contains the warp size in threads (see SIMT Architecture for the definition of a warp).

## 10.5. Memory Fence Functions

The CUDA programming model assumes a device with a weakly-ordered memory model, that is the order in which a CUDA thread writes data to shared memory, global memory, page-locked host memory, or the memory of a peer device is not necessarily the order in which the data is observed being written by another CUDA or host thread. It is undefined behavior for two threads to read from or write to the same memory location without synchronization.

In the following example, thread 1 executes writeXY(), while thread 2 executes readXY().

```txt
__device__ int X = 1, Y = 2;

__device__ void writeXY()
{
    X = 10;
    Y = 20;
}

__device__ void readXY()
{
    int B = Y;
    int A = X;
}
```

The two threads read and write from the same memory locations X and Y simultaneously. Any datarace is undefined behavior, and has no defined semantics. The resulting values for A and B can be anything.

Memory fence functions can be used to enforce a sequentially-consistent ordering on memory accesses. The memory fence functions difer in the scope in which the orderings are enforced but they are independent of the accessed memory space (shared memory, global memory, page-locked host memory, and the memory of a peer device).

```javascript
void __threadfence_block();
```

is equivalent to cuda::atomic\_thread\_fence(cuda::memory\_order\_seq\_cst, cuda::thread\_scope\_block) and ensures that:

All writes to all memory made by the calling thread before the call to \_\_threadfence\_block() are observed by all threads in the block of the calling thread as occurring before all writes to all memory made by the calling thread after the call to \_\_threadfence\_block();

▶ All reads from all memory made by the calling thread before the call to \_\_threadfence\_block() are ordered before all reads from all memory made by the calling thread after the call to \_\_threadfence\_block().

```javascript
void __threadfence();
```

is equivalent to cuda::atomic\_thread\_fence(cuda::memory\_order\_seq\_cst, cuda::thread\_scope\_device) and ensures that no writes to all memory made by the calling thread after the call to \_\_threadfence() are observed by any thread in the device as occurring before any write to all memory made by the calling thread before the call to \_\_threadfence().

```javascript
void __threadfence_system();
```

is equivalent to cuda::atomic\_thread\_fence(cuda::memory\_order\_seq\_cst, cuda::thread\_scope\_system) and ensures that all writes to all memory made by the calling thread before the call to \_\_threadfence\_system() are observed by all threads in the device, host threads, and all threads in peer devices as occurring before all writes to all memory made by the calling thread after the call to \_\_threadfence\_system().

\_\_threadfence\_system() is only supported by devices of compute capability 2.x and higher.

In the previous code sample, we can insert fences in the codes as follows:

```lisp
__device__ int X = 1, Y = 2;

__device__ void writeXY()
{
    X = 10;
    __threadfence();
    Y = 20;
}

__device__ void readXY()
{
    int B = Y;
    __threadfence();
    int A = X;
}
```

For this code, the following outcomes can be observed:

▶ A equal to 1 and B equal to 2,

▶ A equal to 10 and B equal to 2,

A equal to 10 and B equal to 20.

The fourth outcome is not possible, because the first write must be visible before the second write. If thread 1 and 2 belong to the same block, it is enough to use \_\_threadfence\_block(). If thread 1 and 2 do not belong to the same block, \_\_threadfence() must be used if they are CUDA threads from the same device and \_\_threadfence\_system() must be used if they are CUDA threads from two diferent devices.
