A common use case is when threads consume some data produced by other threads as illustrated by the following code sample of a kernel that computes the sum of an array of N numbers in one call. Each block first sums a subset of the array and stores the result in global memory. When all blocks are done, the last block done reads each of these partial sums from global memory and sums them to obtain the final result. In order to determine which block is finished last, each block atomically increments a counter to signal that it is done with computing and storing its partial sum (see Atomic Functions about atomic functions). The last block is the one that receives the counter value equal to gridDim. x-1. If no fence is placed between storing the partial sum and incrementing the counter, the counter might increment before the partial sum is stored and therefore, might reach gridDim.x-1 and let the last block start reading partial sums before they have been actually updated in memory.

Memory fence functions only afect the ordering of memory operations by a thread; they do not, by themselves, ensure that these memory operations are visible to other threads (like \_\_syncthreads() does for threads within a block; see Synchronization Functions). In the code sample below, the visibility of memory operations on the result variable is ensured by declaring it as volatile (see Volatile Qualifier).

```lisp
__device__ unsigned int count = 0;
__shared__ bool isLastBlockDone;
__global__ void sum(const float* array, unsigned int N,
                             volatile float* result)
{
    // Each block sums a subset of the input array.
    float partialSum = calculatePartialSum(array, N);

    if (threadIdx.x == 0) {

        // Thread 0 of each block stores the partial sum
        // to global memory. The compiler will use
        // a store operation that bypasses the L1 cache
        // since the "result" variable is declared as
        // volatile. This ensures that the threads of
        // the last block will read the correct partial
        // sums computed by all other blocks.
        result[blockIdx.x] = partialSum;

        // Thread 0 makes sure that the incrementing
        // of the "count" variable is only performed after
        // the partial sum has been written to global memory.
        __threadfence();

        // Thread 0 signals that it is done.
        unsigned int value = atomicInc(&count, gridDim.x);

        // Thread 0 determines if its block is the last
        // block to be done.
        isLastBlockDone = (value == (gridDim.x - 1));
    }

    // Synchronize to make sure that each thread reads
    // the correct value of isLastBlockDone.
    __syncthreads();

    if (isLastBlockDone) {

        // The last block sums the partial sums
        // stored in result[0 .. gridDim.x-1]
        float totalSum = calculateTotalSum(result);

        if (threadIdx.x == 0) {

            // Thread 0 of last block stores the total sum
            // to global memory and resets the count
            // variable, so that the next kernel call
```

```txt
// works properly.
result[0] = totalSum;
count = 0;
}
}
}
```

## 10.6. Synchronization Functions

```javascript
void __syncthreads();
```

waits until all threads in the thread block have reached this point and all global and shared memory accesses made by these threads prior to \_\_syncthreads() are visible to all threads in the block.

\_syncthreads() is used to coordinate communication between the threads of the same block. When some threads within a block access the same addresses in shared or global memory, there are potential read-after-write, write-after-read, or write-after-write hazards for some of these memory accesses. These data hazards can be avoided by synchronizing threads in-between these accesses.

syncthreads() is allowed in conditional code but only if the conditional evaluates identically across the entire thread block, otherwise the code execution is likely to hang or produce unintended side efects.

Devices of compute capability 2.x and higher support three variations of \_\_syncthreads() described below.

```txt
int __syncthreads_count(int predicate);
```

is identical to \_\_syncthreads() with the additional feature that it evaluates predicate for all threads of the block and returns the number of threads for which predicate evaluates to non-zero.

int \_\_syncthreads\_and(int predicate);

is identical to \_\_syncthreads() with the additional feature that it evaluates predicate for all threads of the block and returns non-zero if and only if predicate evaluates to non-zero for all of them.

```txt
int __syncthreads_or(int predicate);
```

is identical to \_\_syncthreads() with the additional feature that it evaluates predicate for all threads of the block and returns non-zero if and only if predicate evaluates to non-zero for any of them.

```javascript
void __syncwarp(unsigned mask=0xffffffff);
```

will cause the executing thread to wait until all warp lanes named in mask have executed a \_\_syncwarp() (with the same mask) before resuming execution. Each calling thread must have its own bit set in the mask and all non-exited threads named in mask must execute a corresponding \_\_syncwarp() with the same mask, or the result is undefined.

Executing \_\_syncwarp() guarantees memory ordering among threads participating in the barrier. Thus, threads within a warp that wish to communicate via memory can store to memory, execute \_\_syncwarp(), and then safely read values stored by other threads in the warp.

Note: For .target sm\_6x or below, all threads in mask must execute the same \_\_syncwarp() in convergence, and the union of all values in mask must be equal to the active mask. Otherwise, the behavior is undefined.

## 10.7. Mathematical Functions

The reference manual lists all C/C++ standard library mathematical functions that are supported in device code and all intrinsic functions that are only supported in device code.

Mathematical Functions provides accuracy information for some of these functions when relevant.

## 10.8. Texture Functions

Texture objects are described in Texture Object API.

Texture fetching is described in Texture Fetching.

## 10.8.1. Texture Object API

## 10.8.1.1 tex1Dfetch()

```txt
template<class T>
T tex1Dfetch(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, int x);
```

fetches from the region of linear memory specified by the one-dimensional texture object texObj using integer texture coordinate x. tex1Dfetch() only works with non-normalized coordinates, so only the border and clamp addressing modes are supported. It does not perform any texture filtering. For integer types, it may optionally promote the integer to single-precision floating point.

## 10.8.1.2 tex1D()

```txt
template<class T>
tex1D(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the one-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate x.

## 10.8.1.3 tex1DLod()

```javascript
template<class T>
T tex1DLod(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float level);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the one-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate x at the level-of-detail level.

## 10.8.1.4 tex1DGrad()

```cpp
template<class T>
tex1DGrad(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float dx, float dy);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the one-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate x. The level-of-detail is derived from the X-gradient dx and Y-gradient dy.

## 10.8.1.5 tex2D()

```javascript
template<class T>
T tex2D(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y);
```

fetches from the CUDA array or the region of linear memory specified by the two-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y).

## 10.8.1.6 tex2D() for sparse CUDA arrays

```txt
template<class T>
T tex2D(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y, bool* isResident);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the two-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y). Also returns whether the texel is resident in memory via isResident pointer. If not, the values fetched will be zeros.

## 10.8.1.7 tex2Dgather()

```txt
template<class T>
T tex2Dgather(cudaTextureObject_t texObj,
                   float x, float y, int comp = 0);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the 2D texture object texObj using texture coordinates x and y and the comp parameter as described in Texture Gather.

## 10.8.1.8 tex2Dgather() for sparse CUDA arrays

```javascript
template<class T>
tex2Dgather(cudaTextureObject_t texObj,
    float x, float y, bool* isResident, int comp = 0);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the 2D texture object texObj using texture coordinates x and y and the comp parameter as described in Texture Gather. Also returns whether the texel is resident in memory via isResident pointer. If not, the values fetched will be zeros.

## 10.8.1.9 tex2DGrad()

```cpp
template<class T>
T tex2DGrad(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y,
                   float2 dx, float2 dy);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the two-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y). The level-of-detail is derived from the dx and dy gradients.

## 10.8.1.10 tex2DGrad() for sparse CUDA arrays

```txt
template<class T>
tex2DGrad(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y,
    float2 dx, float2 dy, bool* isResident);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the two-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y). The level-of-detail is derived from the dx and dy gradients. Also returns whether the texel is resident in memory via isResident pointer. If not, the values fetched will be zeros.

## 10.8.1.11 tex2DLod()

```txt
template<class T>
tex2DLod(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y, float level);
```

fetches from the CUDA array or the region of linear memory specified by the two-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y) at level-of-detail level.

## 10.8.1.12 tex2DLod() for sparse CUDA arrays

```txt
template<class T>
tex2DLod(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y, float level, bool* isResident);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the two-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y) at level-of-detail level. Also returns whether the texel is resident in memory via isResident pointer. If not, the values fetched will be zeros

## 10.8.1.13 tex3D()

```javascript
template<class T>
T tex3D(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y, float z);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the three-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y,z).

## 10.8.1.14 tex3D() for sparse CUDA arrays

```txt
template<class T>
T tex3D(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y, float z, bool* isResident);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the three-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y,z). Also returns whether the texel is resident in memory via isResident pointer. If not, the values fetched will be zeros.

## 10.8.1.15 tex3DLod()

```javascript
template<class T>
T tex3DLod(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y, float z, float level);
```

fetches from the CUDA array or the region of linear memory specified by the three-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y,z) at level-of-detail level.

## 10.8.1.16 tex3DLod() for sparse CUDA arrays

```cpp
template<class T>
T tex3DLod(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y, float z, float level, bool*
→isResident);
```

fetches from the CUDA array or the region of linear memory specified by the three-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y,z) at level-of-detail level. Also returns whether the texel is resident in memory via isResident pointer. If not, the values fetched will be zeros.

## 10.8.1.17 tex3DGrad()

```txt
template<class T>
T tex3DGrad(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y, float z,
                   float4 dx, float4 dy);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the three-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y,z) at a level-of-detail derived from the X and Y gradients dx and dy.

## 10.8.1.18 tex3DGrad() for sparse CUDA arrays

```cpp
template<class T>
T tex3DGrad(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y, float z,
    float4 dx, float4 dy, bool* isResident);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the three-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y,z) at a level-of-detail derived from the X and Y gradients dx and dy. Also returns whether the texel is resident in memory via isResident pointer. If not, the values fetched will be zeros.

## 10.8.1.19 tex1DLayered()

```txt
template<class T>
tex1DLayered(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, int layer);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the one-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate x and index layer, as described in Layered Textures.

## 10.8.1.20 tex1DLayeredLod()

```txt
template<class T>
T tex1DLayeredLod(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, int layer, float level);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the one-dimensional Layered Textures at layer layer using texture coordinate x and level-of-detail level.

## 10.8.1.21 tex1DLayeredGrad()

```txt
template<class T>
T tex1DLayeredGrad(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, int layer,
                   float dx, float dy);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the one-dimensional layered texture at layer layer using texture coordinate x and a level-of-detail derived from the dx and dy gradients.

## 10.8.1.22 tex2DLayered()

```txt
template<class T>
T tex2DLayered(cudaTextureObject_t texObj,
                   float x, float y, int layer);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the two-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y) and index layer, as described in Layered Textures.

## 10.8.1.23 tex2DLayered() for Sparse CUDA Arrays

```txt
template<class T>
T tex2DLayered(cudaTextureObject_t texObj,
        float x, float y, int layer, bool* isResident);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the two-dimensional texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y) and index layer, as described in Layered Textures. Also returns whether the texel is resident in memory via isResident pointer. If not, the values fetched will be zeros.

## 10.8.1.24 tex2DLayeredLod()

```txt
template<class T>
T tex2DLayeredLod(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y, int layer,
                   float level);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the two-dimensional layered texture at layer layer using texture coordinate (x,y).

## 10.8.1.25 tex2DLayeredLod() for sparse CUDA arrays

```cpp
template<class T>
tex2DLayeredLod(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y, int layer,
    float level, bool* isResident);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the two-dimensional layered texture at layer layer using texture coordinate (x,y). Also returns whether the texel is resident in memory via isResident pointer. If not, the values fetched will be zeros.

## 10.8.1.26 tex2DLayeredGrad()

```txt
template<class T>
T tex2DLayeredGrad(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y, int layer,
                   float2 dx, float2 dy);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the two-dimensional layered texture at layer layer using texture coordinate (x,y) and a level-of-detail derived from the dx and dy gradients.

## 10.8.1.27 tex2DLayeredGrad() for sparse CUDA arrays

```txt
template<class T>
tex2DLayeredGrad(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y, int layer,
    float2 dx, float2 dy, bool* isResident);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the two-dimensional layered texture at layer layer using texture coordinate (x,y) and a level-of-detail derived from the dx and dy gradients. Also returns whether the texel is resident in memory via isResident pointer. If not, the values fetched will be zeros.

## 10.8.1.28 texCubemap()

```cpp
template<class T>
T texCubemap(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y, float z);
```

fetches the CUDA array specified by the cubemap texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y,z), as described in Cubemap Textures.

## 10.8.1.29 texCubemapGrad()

```txt
template<class T>
T texCubemapGrad(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float, y, float z,
                   float4 dx, float4 dy);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the cubemap texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y,z) as described in Cubemap Textures. The level-of-detail used is derived from the dx and dy gradients.

## 10.8.1.30 texCubemapLod()

```txt
template<class T>
T texCubemapLod(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float, y, float z,
                   float level);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the cubemap texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y,z) as described in Cubemap Textures. The level-of-detail used is given by level.

## 10.8.1.31 texCubemapLayered()

```txt
template<class T>
T texCubemapLayered(cudaTextureObject_t texObj,
                   float x, float y, float z, int layer);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the cubemap layered texture object texObj using texture coordinates (x,y,z), and index layer, as described in Cubemap Layered Textures.

## 10.8.1.32 texCubemapLayeredGrad()

```cpp
template<class T>
T texCubemapLayeredGrad(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y, float z,
                   int layer, float4 dx, float4 dy);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the cubemap layered texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y,z) and index layer, as described in Cubemap Layered Textures, at level-of-detail derived from the dx and dy gradients.

## 10.8.1.33 texCubemapLayeredLod()

```txt
template<class T>
T texCubemapLayeredLod(cudaTextureObject_t texObj, float x, float y, float z,
                   int layer, float level);
```

fetches from the CUDA array specified by the cubemap layered texture object texObj using texture coordinate (x,y,z) and index layer, as described in Cubemap Layered Textures, at level-of-detail level level.

## 10.9. Surface Functions

Surface functions are only supported by devices of compute capability 2.0 and higher.

Surface objects are described in described in Surface Object API.

In the sections below, boundaryMode specifies the boundary mode, that is how out-of-range surface coordinates are handled; it is equal to either cudaBoundaryModeClamp, in which case out-of-range coordinates are clamped to the valid range, or cudaBoundaryModeZero, in which case out-of-range reads return zero and out-of-range writes are ignored, or cudaBoundaryModeTrap, in which case outof-range accesses cause the kernel execution to fail.

## 10.9.1. Surface Object API

## 10.9.1.1 surf1Dread()

```txt
template<class T>
T surf1Dread(cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj, int x,
        boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
```

reads the CUDA array specified by the one-dimensional surface object surfObj using byte coordinate x.

## 10.9.1.2 surf1Dwrite

```txt
template<class T>
void surf1Dwrite(T data,
                       cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
                       int x,
                       boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
```

writes value data to the CUDA array specified by the one-dimensional surface object surfObj at byte coordinate x.

## 10.9.1.3 surf2Dread()

```txt
template<class T>
T surf2Dread(cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
            int x, int y,
            boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
template<class T>
void surf2Dread(T* data,
                cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
                int x, int y,
                boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
```

reads the CUDA array specified by the two-dimensional surface object surfObj using byte coordinates x and y.

## 10.9.1.4 surf2Dwrite()

```cpp
template<class T>
void surf2Dwrite(T data,
                       cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
                       int x, int y,
                       boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
```

writes value data to the CUDA array specified by the two-dimensional surface object surfObj at byte coordinate x and y.

## 10.9.1.5 surf3Dread()

```cpp
template<class T>
T surf3Dread(cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
            int x, int y, int z,
            boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
template<class T>
void surf3Dread(T* data,
                cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
                int x, int y, int z,
                boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
```

reads the CUDA array specified by the three-dimensional surface object surfObj using byte coordinates x, y, and z.

## 10.9.1.6 surf3Dwrite()

```cpp
template<class T>
void surf3Dwrite(T data,
                       cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
                       int x, int y, int z,
                       boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
```

writes value data to the CUDA array specified by the three-dimensional object surfObj at byte coordinate x, y, and z.

## 10.9.1.7 surf1DLayeredread()

```cpp
template<class T>
T surf1DLayeredread(
        cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
        int x, int layer,
        boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
template<class T>
void surf1DLayeredread(T data,
        cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
        int x, int layer,
        boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
```

reads the CUDA array specified by the one-dimensional layered surface object surfObj using byte coordinate x and index layer.

## 10.9.1.8 surf1DLayeredwrite()

```cpp
template<class Type>
void surf1DLayeredwrite(T data,
                       cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
                       int x, int layer,
                       boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
```

writes value data to the CUDA array specified by the two-dimensional layered surface object surfObj at byte coordinate x and index layer.

## 10.9.1.9 surf2DLayeredread()

```cpp
template<class T>
T surf2DLayeredread(
        cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
        int x, int y, int layer,
        boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
template<class T>
void surf2DLayeredread(T data,
                       cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
                       int x, int y, int layer,
                       boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
```

reads the CUDA array specified by the two-dimensional layered surface object surfObj using byte coordinate x and y, and index layer.

## 10.9.1.10 surf2DLayeredwrite()

```txt
template<class T>
void surf2DLayeredwrite(T data,
                           cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
                           int x, int y, int layer,
                           boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
```

writes value data to the CUDA array specified by the one-dimensional layered surface object surfObj at byte coordinate x and y, and index layer.

## 10.9.1.11 surfCubemapread()

```cpp
template<class T>
T surfCubemapread(
        cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
        int x, int y, int face,
        boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
template<class T>
void surfCubemapread(T data,
        cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
        int x, int y, int face,
        boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
```

reads the CUDA array specified by the cubemap surface object surfObj using byte coordinate x and y, and face index face.

## 10.9.1.12 surfCubemapwrite()

```cpp
template<class T>
void surfCubemapwrite(T data,
                       cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
                       int x, int y, int face,
                       boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
```

writes value data to the CUDA array specified by the cubemap object surfObj at byte coordinate x and y, and face index face.

## 10.9.1.13 surfCubemapLayeredread()

```cpp
template<class T>
T surfCubemapLayeredread(
        cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
        int x, int y, int layerFace,
        boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
template<class T>
void surfCubemapLayeredread(T data,
        cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
        int x, int y, int layerFace,
        boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
```

reads the CUDA array specified by the cubemap layered surface object surfObj using byte coordinate x and y, and index layerFace.

## 10.9.1.14 surfCubemapLayeredwrite()

```txt
template<class T>
void surfCubemapLayeredwrite(T data,
                       cudaSurfaceObject_t surfObj,
                       int x, int y, int layerFace,
                       boundaryMode = cudaBoundaryModeTrap);
```

writes value data to the CUDA array specified by the cubemap layered object surfObj at byte coordinate x and y, and index layerFace.

## 10.10. Read-Only Data Cache Load Function

The read-only data cache load function is only supported by devices of compute capability 5.0 and higher.

```javascript
T __ldg(const T* address);
```

returns the data of type T located at address address, where T is char, signed char, short, int, long, long longunsigned char, unsigned short, unsigned int, unsigned long, unsigned long long, char2, char4, short2, short4, int2, int4, longlong2uchar2, uchar4, ushort2, ushort4, uint2, uint4, ulonglong2float, float2, float4, double, or double2. With the cuda\_fp16.h header included, T can be \_\_half or \_\_half2. Similarly, with the cuda\_bf16.h header included, T can also be \_\_nv\_bfloat16 or \_\_nv\_bfloat162. The operation is cached in the read-only data cache (see Global Memory).

## 10.11. Load Functions Using Cache Hints

These load functions are only supported by devices of compute capability 5.0 and higher.

```javascript
T __ldcg(const T* address);
T __ldca(const T* address);
T __ldcs(const T* address);
T __ldlu(const T* address);
T __ldcv(const T* address);
```

returns the data of type T located at address address, where T is char, signed char, short, int, long, long longunsigned char, unsigned short, unsigned int, unsigned long, unsigned long long, char2, char4, short2, short4, int2, int4, longlong2uchar2, uchar4, ushort2, ushort4, uint2, uint4, ulonglong2float, float2, float4, double, or double2. With the cuda\_fp16.h header included, T can be \_\_half or \_\_half2. Similarly, with the cuda\_bf16.h header included, T can also be \_\_nv\_bfloat16 or \_\_nv\_bfloat162. The operation is using the corresponding cache operator (see PTX ISA)

## 10.12. Store Functions Using Cache Hints

These store functions are only supported by devices of compute capability 5.0 and higher.

```c
void __stwb(T* address, T value);
void __stcg(T* address, T value);
void __stcs(T* address, T value);
void __stwt(T* address, T value);
```

stores the value argument of type T to the location at address address, where T is char, signed char, short, int, long, long longunsigned char, unsigned short, unsigned int, unsigned long, unsigned long long, char2, char4, short2, short4, int2, int4, longlong2uchar2, uchar4, ushort2, ushort4, uint2, uint4, ulonglong2float, float2, float4, double, or double2. With the cuda\_fp16.h header included, T can be \_\_half or \_\_half2. Similarly, with the cuda\_bf16.h header included, T can also be \_\_nv\_bfloat16 or \_\_nv\_bfloat162. The operation is using the corresponding cache operator (see PTX ISA )
