## 10.21. Warp Reduce Functions

The \_\_reduce\_sync(unsigned mask, T value) intrinsics perform a reduction operation on the data provided in value after synchronizing threads named in mask. T can be unsigned or signed for {add, min, max} and unsigned only for {and, or, xor} operations.

Supported by devices of compute capability 8.x or higher.

## 10.21.1. Synopsis

```c
// add/min/max
unsigned __reduce_add_sync(unsigned mask, unsigned value);
unsigned __reduce_min_sync(unsigned mask, unsigned value);
unsigned __reduce_max_sync(unsigned mask, unsigned value);
int __reduce_add_sync(unsigned mask, int value);
int __reduce_min_sync(unsigned mask, int value);
int __reduce_max_sync(unsigned mask, int value);

// and/or/xor
unsigned __reduce_and_sync(unsigned mask, unsigned value);
unsigned __reduce_or_sync(unsigned mask, unsigned value);
unsigned __reduce_xor_sync(unsigned mask, unsigned value);
```

## 10.21.2. Description

## \_\_reduce\_add\_sync, \_\_reduce\_min\_sync, \_\_reduce\_max\_sync

Returns the result of applying an arithmetic add, min, or max reduction operation on the values provided in value by each thread named in mask

## \_\_reduce\_and\_sync, \_\_reduce\_or\_sync, \_\_reduce\_xor\_sync

Returns the result of applying a logical AND, OR, or XOR reduction operation on the values provided in value by each thread named in mask.

The mask indicates the threads participating in the call. A bit, representing the thread’s lane id, must be set for each participating thread to ensure they are properly converged before the intrinsic is executed by the hardware. Each calling thread must have its own bit set in the mask and all non-exited threads named in mask must execute the same intrinsic with the same mask, or the result is undefined.

These intrinsics do not imply a memory barrier. They do not guarantee any memory ordering.

## 10.22. Warp Shufle Functions

\_\_shfl\_sync, \_\_shfl\_up\_sync, \_\_shfl\_down\_sync, and \_\_shfl\_xor\_sync exchange a variable between threads within a warp.

Supported by devices of compute capability 5.0 or higher.

Deprecation Notice: \_\_shfl, \_\_shfl\_up, \_\_shfl\_down, and \_\_shfl\_xor have been deprecated in CUDA 9.0 for all devices.

Removal Notice: When targeting devices with compute capability 7.x or higher, \_\_shfl, \_\_shfl\_up, \_\_shfl\_down, and \_\_shfl\_xor are no longer available and their sync variants should be used instead.

## 10.22.1. Synopsis

```c
T __shfl_sync(unsigned mask, T var, int srcLane, int width=warpSize);
T __shfl_up_sync(unsigned mask, T var, unsigned int delta, int width=warpSize);
T __shfl_down_sync(unsigned mask, T var, unsigned int delta, int width=warpSize);
T __shfl_xor_sync(unsigned mask, T var, int laneMask, int width=warpSize);
```

T can be int, unsigned int, long, unsigned long, long long, unsigned long long, float or double. With the cuda\_fp16.h header included, T can also be \_\_half or \_\_half2. Similarly, with the cuda\_bf16.h header included, T can also be \_\_nv\_bfloat16 or \_\_nv\_bfloat162.

## 10.22.2. Description

The \_\_shfl\_sync() intrinsics permit exchanging of a variable between threads within a warp without use of shared memory. The exchange occurs simultaneously for all active threads within the warp (and named in mask), moving 4 or 8 bytes of data per thread depending on the type.

Threads within a warp are referred to as lanes, and may have an index between 0 and warpSize-1 (inclusive). Four source-lane addressing modes are supported:

\_\_shfl\_sync()

Direct copy from indexed lane

\_\_shfl\_up\_sync()

Copy from a lane with lower ID relative to caller

\_\_shfl\_down\_sync()

Copy from a lane with higher ID relative to caller

\_\_shfl\_xor\_sync()

Copy from a lane based on bitwise XOR of own lane ID

Threads may only read data from another thread which is actively participating in the \_\_shfl\_sync() command. If the target thread is inactive, the retrieved value is undefined.

All of the \_\_shfl\_sync() intrinsics take an optional width parameter which alters the behavior of the intrinsic. width must have a value which is a power of two in the range [1, warpSize] (i.e., 1, 2, 4, 8, 16 or 32). Results are undefined for other values.

\_\_shfl\_sync() returns the value of var held by the thread whose ID is given by srcLane. If width is less than warpSize then each subsection of the warp behaves as a separate entity with a starting logical lane ID of 0. If srcLane is outside the range [0:width-1], the value returned corresponds to the value of var held by the srcLane modulo width (i.e. within the same subsection).

\_shfl\_up\_sync() calculates a source lane ID by subtracting delta from the caller’s lane ID. The value of var held by the resulting lane ID is returned: in efect, var is shifted up the warp by delta lanes. If width is less than warpSize then each subsection of the warp behaves as a separate entity with a starting logical lane ID of 0. The source lane index will not wrap around the value of width, so efectively the lower delta lanes will be unchanged.

\_\_shfl\_down\_sync() calculates a source lane ID by adding delta to the caller’s lane ID. The value of var held by the resulting lane ID is returned: this has the efect of shifting var down the warp by delta lanes. If width is less than warpSize then each subsection of the warp behaves as a separate entity with a starting logical lane ID of 0. As for \_\_shfl\_up\_sync(), the ID number of the source lane will not wrap around the value of width and so the upper delta lanes will remain unchanged.

shfl\_xor\_sync() calculates a source line ID by performing a bitwise XOR of the caller’s lane ID with laneMask: the value of var held by the resulting lane ID is returned. If width is less than warpSize then each group of width consecutive threads are able to access elements from earlier groups of threads, however if they attempt to access elements from later groups of threads their own value of var will be returned. This mode implements a butterfly addressing pattern such as is used in tree reduction and broadcast.

The new \*\_sync shfl intrinsics take in a mask indicating the threads participating in the call. A bit, representing the thread’s lane id, must be set for each participating thread to ensure they are properly converged before the intrinsic is executed by the hardware. Each calling thread must have its own bit set in the mask and all non-exited threads named in mask must execute the same intrinsic with the same mask, or the result is undefined.

Threads may only read data from another thread which is actively participating in the \_\_shfl\_sync() command. If the target thread is inactive, the retrieved value is undefined.

These intrinsics do not imply a memory barrier. They do not guarantee any memory ordering.

## 10.22.3. Examples

## 10.22.3.1 Broadcast of a single value across a warp

```c
#include <stdio.h>

__global__ void bcast(int arg) {
    int laneId = threadIdx.x & 0x1f;
    int value;
    if (laneId == 0)          // Note unused variable for
        value = arg;         // all threads except lane 0
    value = __shfl_sync(0xffffffff, value, 0);   // Synchronize all threads in warp,
and get "value" from lane 0
    if (value != arg)
        printf("Thread %d failed.\n", threadIdx.x);
}

int main() {
    bcast<<< 1, 32 >>>(1234);
    cudaDeviceSynchronize();

    return 0;
}
```

## 10.22.3.2 Inclusive plus-scan across sub-partitions of 8 threads

```cpp
#include <stdio.h>

__global__ void scan4() {
    int laneId = threadIdx.x & 0x1f;
    // Seed sample starting value (inverse of lane ID)
    int value = 31 - laneId;

    // Loop to accumulate scan within my partition.
    // Scan requires log2(n) == 3 steps for 8 threads
    // It works by an accumulated sum up the warp
    // by 1, 2, 4, 8 etc. steps.
    for (int i=1; i<=4; i*=2) {
        // We do the __shfl_sync unconditionally so that we
        // can read even from threads which won't do a
        // sum, and then conditionally assign the result.
        int n = __shfl_up_sync(0xffffffff, value, i, 8);
        if ((laneId & 7) >= i)
            value += n;
    }

    printf("Thread %d final value = %d\n", threadIdx.x, value);
}

int main() {
    scan4<<< 1, 32 >>>();
    cudaDeviceSynchronize();

    return 0;
}
```

## 10.22.3.3 Reduction across a warp

```c
#include <stdio.h>

__global__ void warpReduce() {
    int laneId = threadIdx.x & 0x1f;
    // Seed starting value as inverse lane ID
    int value = 31 - laneId;

    // Use XOR mode to perform butterfly reduction
    for (int i=16; i>=1; i/=2)
        value += __shfl_xor_sync(0xffffffff, value, i, 32);

    // "value" now contains the sum across all threads
    printf("Thread %d final value = %d\n", threadIdx.x, value);
}

int main() {
    warpReduce<<< 1, 32 >>>();
    cudaDeviceSynchronize();

    return 0;
}
```

## 10.23. Nanosleep Function

## 10.23.1. Synopsis

```txt
void __nanosleep(unsigned ns);
```

## 10.23.2. Description

\_\_nanosleep(ns) suspends the thread for a sleep duration of approximately ns nanoseconds. The maximum sleep duration is approximately 1 millisecond.

It is supported with compute capability 7.0 or higher.

## 10.23.3. Example

The following code implements a mutex with exponential back-of.

```txt
__device__ void mutex_lock(unsigned int *mutex) {
    unsigned int ns = 8;
    while (atomicCAS(mutex, 0, 1) == 1) {
        __nanosleep(ns);
        if (ns < 256) {
            ns *= 2;
        }
    }
}

__device__ void mutex_unlock(unsigned int *mutex) {
    atomicExch(mutex, 0);
}
```

## 10.24. Warp Matrix Functions

C++ warp matrix operations leverage Tensor Cores to accelerate matrix problems of the form D=A\*B+C. These operations are supported on mixed-precision floating point data for devices of compute capability 7.0 or higher. This requires co-operation from all threads in a warp. In addition, these operations are allowed in conditional code only if the condition evaluates identically across the entire warp, otherwise the code execution is likely to hang.

## 10.24.1. Description

All following functions and types are defined in the namespace nvcuda::wmma. Sub-byte operations are considered preview, i.e. the data structures and APIs for them are subject to change and may not be compatible with future releases. This extra functionality is defined in the nvcuda::wmma::experimental namespace.

```c
template<typename Use, int m, int n, int k, typename T, typename Layout=void> class
fragment;

void load_matrix_sync(fragment<...> &a, const T* mptr, unsigned ldm);
void load_matrix_sync(fragment<...> &a, const T* mptr, unsigned ldm, layout_t layout);
void store_matrix_sync(T* mptr, const fragment<...> &a, unsigned ldm, layout_t
layout);
void fill_fragment(fragment<...> &a, const T& v);
void mma_sync(fragment<...> &d, const fragment<...> &a, const fragment<...> &b, const
fragment<...> &c, bool satf=false);
```

## fragment

An overloaded class containing a section of a matrix distributed across all threads in the warp. The mapping of matrix elements into fragment internal storage is unspecified and subject to change in future architectures.

Only certain combinations of template arguments are allowed. The first template parameter specifies how the fragment will participate in the matrix operation. Acceptable values for Use are:

matrix\_a when the fragment is used as the first multiplicand, A,

▶ matrix\_b when the fragment is used as the second multiplicand, B, or

accumulator when the fragment is used as the source or destination accumulators (C or D, respectively).

The m, n and k sizes describe the shape of the warp-wide matrix tiles participating in the multiplyaccumulate operation. The dimension of each tile depends on its role. For matrix\_a the tile takes dimension m x k; for matrix\_b the dimension is k x n, and accumulator tiles are m x n.

The data type, T, may be double, float, \_\_half, \_\_nv\_bfloat16, char, or unsigned char for multiplicands and double, float, int, or \_\_half for accumulators. As documented in Element Types and Matrix Sizes, limited combinations of accumulator and multiplicand types are supported. The Layout parameter must be specified for matrix\_a and matrix\_b fragments. row\_major or col\_major indicate that elements within a matrix row or column are contiguous in memory, respectively. The Layout parameter for an accumulator matrix should retain the default value of void. A row or column layout is specified only when the accumulator is loaded or stored as described below.

## load\_matrix\_sync

Waits until all warp lanes have arrived at load\_matrix\_sync and then loads the matrix fragment a from memory. mptr must be a 256-bit aligned pointer pointing to the first element of the matrix in memory. ldm describes the stride in elements between consecutive rows (for row major layout) or columns (for column major layout) and must be a multiple of 8 for \_\_half element type or multiple of 4 for float element type. (i.e., multiple of 16 bytes in both cases). If the fragment is an accumulator, the layout argument must be specified as either mem\_row\_major or mem\_col\_major. For matrix\_a and matrix\_b fragments, the layout is inferred from the fragment’s layout parameter. The values of mptr, ldm, layout and all template parameters for a must be the same for all threads in the warp. This function must be called by all threads in the warp, or the result is undefined.

## store\_matrix\_sync

Waits until all warp lanes have arrived at store\_matrix\_sync and then stores the matrix fragment a to memory. mptr must be a 256-bit aligned pointer pointing to the first element of the matrix in memory. ldm describes the stride in elements between consecutive rows (for row major layout) or columns (for column major layout) and must be a multiple of 8 for \_\_half element type or multiple of 4 for float element type. (i.e., multiple of 16 bytes in both cases). The layout of the output matrix must be specified as either mem\_row\_major or mem\_col\_major. The values of mptr, ldm, layout and all template parameters for a must be the same for all threads in the warp.

## fill\_fragment

Fill a matrix fragment with a constant value v. Because the mapping of matrix elements to each fragment is unspecified, this function is ordinarily called by all threads in the warp with a common value for v.

## mma\_sync

Waits until all warp lanes have arrived at mma\_sync, and then performs the warp-synchronous matrix multiply-accumulate operation D=A\*B+C. The in-place operation, C=A\*B+C, is also supported. The value of satf and template parameters for each matrix fragment must be the same for all threads in the warp. Also, the template parameters m, n and k must match between fragments A, B, C and D. This function must be called by all threads in the warp, or the result is undefined.

If satf (saturate to finite value) mode is true, the following additional numerical properties apply for the destination accumulator:

▶ If an element result is +Infinity, the corresponding accumulator will contain +MAX\_NORM

▶ If an element result is -Infinity, the corresponding accumulator will contain -MAX\_NORM

▶ If an element result is NaN, the corresponding accumulator will contain +0

Because the map of matrix elements into each thread’s fragment is unspecified, individual matrix elements must be accessed from memory (shared or global) after calling store\_matrix\_sync. In the special case where all threads in the warp will apply an element-wise operation uniformly to all fragment elements, direct element access can be implemented using the following fragment class members.

```rust
enum fragment<Use, m, n, k, T, Layout>::num_elements;
T fragment<Use, m, n, k, T, Layout>::x[num_elements];
```

As an example, the following code scales an accumulator matrix tile by half.

```txt
wmma::fragment<wmma::accumulator, 16, 16, 16, float> frag;
float alpha = 0.5f; // Same value for all threads in warp
/*...*/
for(int t=0; t<frag.num_elements; t++)
frag.x[t] *= alpha;
```

## 10.24.2. Alternate Floating Point

Tensor Cores support alternate types of floating point operations on devices with compute capability 8.0 and higher.

## \_\_nv\_bfloat16

This data format is an alternate fp16 format that has the same range as f32 but reduced precision (7 bits). You can use this data format directly with the \_\_nv\_bfloat16 type available in cuda\_bf16.h. Matrix fragments with \_\_nv\_bfloat16 data types are required to be composed with accumulators of float type. The shapes and operations supported are the same as with \_\_half.

## tf32

This data format is a special floating point format supported by Tensor Cores, with the same range as f32 and reduced precision (>=10 bits). The internal layout of this format is implementation defined. In order to use this floating point format with WMMA operations, the input matrices must be manually converted to tf32 precision.

To facilitate conversion, a new intrinsic \_\_float\_to\_tf32 is provided. While the input and output arguments to the intrinsic are of float type, the output will be tf32 numerically. This new precision is intended to be used with Tensor Cores only, and if mixed with other floattype operations, the precision and range of the result will be undefined.

Once an input matrix (matrix\_a or matrix\_b) is converted to tf32 precision, the combination of a fragment with precision::tf32 precision, and a data type of float to load\_matrix\_sync will take advantage of this new capability. Both the accumulator fragments must have float data types. The only supported matrix size is 16x16x8 (m-n-k).

The elements of the fragment are represented as float, hence the mapping from element\_type<T> to storage\_element\_type<T> is:

precision::tf32 -> float

## 10.24.3. Double Precision

Tensor Cores support double-precision floating point operations on devices with compute capability 8.0 and higher. To use this new functionality, a fragment with the double type must be used. The mma\_sync operation will be performed with the .rn (rounds to nearest even) rounding modifier.

## 10.24.4. Sub-byte Operations

Sub-byte WMMA operations provide a way to access the low-precision capabilities of Tensor Cores. They are considered a preview feature i.e. the data structures and APIs for them are subject to change and may not be compatible with future releases. This functionality is available via the nvcuda::wmma::experimental namespace:

```cpp
namespace experimental {
    namespace precision {
        struct u4; // 4-bit unsigned
        struct s4; // 4-bit signed
        struct b1; // 1-bit
```

(continues on next page)

```javascript
}
    enum bmmaBitOp {
        bmmaBitOpXOR = 1, // compute_75 minimum
        bmmaBitOpAND = 2  // compute_80 minimum
    };
    enum bmmaAccumulateOp { bmmaAccumulateOpPOPC = 1 };
}
```

(continued from previous page)

For 4 bit precision, the APIs available remain the same, but you must specify experimental::precision::u4 or experimental::precision::s4 as the fragment data type. Since the elements of the fragment are packed together, num\_storage\_elements will be smaller than num\_elements for that fragment. The num\_elements variable for a sub-byte fragment, hence returns the number of elements of sub-byte type element\_type<T>. This is true for single bit precision as well, in which case, the mapping from element\_type<T> to storage\_element\_type<T> is as follows:

```rust
experimental::precision::u4 -> unsigned (8 elements in 1 storage element)
experimental::precision::s4 -> int (8 elements in 1 storage element)
experimental::precision::b1 -> unsigned (32 elements in 1 storage element)
T -> T //all other types
```

The allowed layouts for sub-byte fragments is always row\_major for matrix\_a and col\_major for matrix\_b.

For sub-byte operations the value of ldm in load\_matrix\_sync should be a multiple of 32 for element type experimental::precision::u4 and experimental::precision::s4 or a multiple of 128 for element type experimental::precision::b1 (i.e., multiple of 16 bytes in both cases).

Note: Support for the following variants for MMA instructions is deprecated and will be removed in sm\_90:

▶ experimental::precision::u4

▶ experimental::precision::s4

▶ experimental::precision::b1 with bmmaBitOp set to bmmaBitOpXOR

## bmma\_sync

Waits until all warp lanes have executed bmma\_sync, and then performs the warp-synchronous bit matrix multiply-accumulate operation D = (A op B) + C, where op consists of a logical operation bmmaBitOp followed by the accumulation defined by bmmaAccumulateOp. The available operations are:

bmmaBitOpXOR, a 128-bit XOR of a row in matrix\_a with the 128-bit column of matrix\_b

bmmaBitOpAND, a 128-bit AND of a row in matrix\_a with the 128-bit column of matrix\_b, available on devices with compute capability 8.0 and higher.

The accumulate op is always bmmaAccumulateOpPOPC which counts the number of set bits.

## 10.24.5. Restrictions

The special format required by tensor cores may be diferent for each major and minor device architecture. This is further complicated by threads holding only a fragment (opaque architecture-specific ABI data structure) of the overall matrix, with the developer not allowed to make assumptions on how the individual parameters are mapped to the registers participating in the matrix multiply-accumulate.

Since fragments are architecture-specific, it is unsafe to pass them from function A to function B if the functions have been compiled for diferent link-compatible architectures and linked together into the same device executable. In this case, the size and layout of the fragment will be specific to one architecture and using WMMA APIs in the other will lead to incorrect results or potentially, corruption.

An example of two link-compatible architectures, where the layout of the fragment difers, is sm\_70 and sm\_75.

```txt
fragA.cu: void foo() { wmma::fragment<...> mat_a; bar(&mat_a); }
fragB.cu: void bar(wmma::fragment<...> *mat_a) { // operate on mat_a }

// sm_70 fragment layout
\$> nvcc -dc -arch=compute_70 -code=sm_70 fragA.cu -o fragA.o
// sm_75 fragment layout
\$> nvcc -dc -arch=compute_75 -code=sm_75 fragB.cu -o fragB.o
// Linking the two together
\$> nvcc -dlink -arch=sm_75 fragA.o fragB.o -o frag.o
```

This undefined behavior might also be undetectable at compilation time and by tools at runtime, so extra care is needed to make sure the layout of the fragments is consistent. This linking hazard is most likely to appear when linking with a legacy library that is both built for a diferent link-compatible architecture and expecting to be passed a WMMA fragment

Note that in the case of weak linkages (for example, a CUDA C++ inline function), the linker may choose any available function definition which may result in implicit passes between compilation units.

To avoid these sorts of problems, the matrix should always be stored out to memory for transit through external interfaces (e.g. wmma::store\_matrix\_sync(dst, …);) and then it can be safely passed to bar() as a pointer type [e.g. float \*dst].

Note that since sm\_70 can run on sm\_75, the above example sm\_75 code can be changed to sm\_70 and correctly work on sm\_75. However, it is recommended to have sm\_75 native code in your application when linking with other sm\_75 separately compiled binaries.

## 10.24.6. Element Types and Matrix Sizes

Tensor Cores support a variety of element types and matrix sizes. The following table presents the various combinations of matrix\_a, matrix\_b and accumulator matrix supported:

<table><tr><td>Matrix A</td><td>Matrix B</td><td>Accumulator</td><td>Matrix Size (m-n-k)</td></tr><tr><td>__half</td><td>__half</td><td>float</td><td>16x16x16</td></tr><tr><td>__half</td><td>__half</td><td>float</td><td>32x8x16</td></tr><tr><td>__half</td><td>__half</td><td>float</td><td>8x32x16</td></tr><tr><td>__half</td><td>__half</td><td>__half</td><td>16x16x16</td></tr><tr><td>__half</td><td>__half</td><td>__half</td><td>32x8x16</td></tr><tr><td>__half</td><td>__half</td><td>__half</td><td>8x32x16</td></tr><tr><td>unsigned char</td><td>unsigned char</td><td>int</td><td>16x16x16</td></tr><tr><td>unsigned char</td><td>unsigned char</td><td>int</td><td>32x8x16</td></tr><tr><td>unsigned char</td><td>unsigned char</td><td>int</td><td>8x32x16</td></tr><tr><td>signed char</td><td>signed char</td><td>int</td><td>16x16x16</td></tr><tr><td>signed char</td><td>signed char</td><td>int</td><td>32x8x16</td></tr><tr><td>signed char</td><td>signed char</td><td>int</td><td>8x32x16</td></tr></table>

Alternate Floating Point support:

<table><tr><td>Matrix A</td><td>Matrix B</td><td>Accumulator</td><td>Matrix Size (m-n-k)</td></tr><tr><td>__nv_bfloat16</td><td>__nv_bfloat16</td><td>float</td><td>16x16x16</td></tr><tr><td>__nv_bfloat16</td><td>__nv_bfloat16</td><td>float</td><td>32x8x16</td></tr><tr><td>__nv_bfloat16</td><td>__nv_bfloat16</td><td>float</td><td>8x32x16</td></tr><tr><td>precision::tf32</td><td>precision::tf32</td><td>float</td><td>16x16x8</td></tr></table>

Double Precision Support:

<table><tr><td>Matrix A</td><td>Matrix B</td><td>Accumulator</td><td>Matrix Size (m-n-k)</td></tr><tr><td>double</td><td>double</td><td>double</td><td>8x8x4</td></tr></table>

Experimental support for sub-byte operations:

<table><tr><td>Matrix A</td><td>Matrix B</td><td>Accumulator</td><td>Matrix Size (m-n-k)</td></tr><tr><td>precision::u4</td><td>precision::u4</td><td>int</td><td>8x8x32</td></tr><tr><td>precision::s4</td><td>precision::s4</td><td>int</td><td>8x8x32</td></tr><tr><td>precision::b1</td><td>precision::b1</td><td>int</td><td>8x8x128</td></tr></table>

## 10.24.7. Example

The following code implements a 16x16x16 matrix multiplication in a single warp.

```cpp
#include <mma.h>
using namespace nvcuda;

__global__ void wmma_ker(half *a, half *b, float *c) {
    // Declare the fragments
    wmma::fragment<wmma::matrix_a, 16, 16, 16, half, wmma::col_major> a_frag;
    wmma::fragment<wmma::matrix_b, 16, 16, 16, half, wmma::row_major> b_frag;
    wmma::fragment<wmma::accumulator, 16, 16, 16, float> c_frag;

    // Initialize the output to zero
    wmma::fill_fragment(c_frag, 0.0f);

    // Load the inputs
    wmma::load_matrix_sync(a_frag, a, 16);
    wmma::load_matrix_sync(b_frag, b, 16);

    // Perform the matrix multiplication
    wmma::mma_sync(c_frag, a_frag, b_frag, c_frag);

    // Store the output
    wmma::store_matrix_sync(c, c_frag, 16, wmma::mem_row_major);
}
```
