## 10.31. Profiler Counter Function

Each multiprocessor has a set of sixteen hardware counters that an application can increment with a single instruction by calling the \_\_prof\_trigger() function.

```javascript
void __prof_trigger(int counter);
```

increments by one per warp the per-multiprocessor hardware counter of index counter. Counters 8 to 15 are reserved and should not be used by applications.

The value of counters 0, 1, …, 7 can be obtained via nvprof by nvprof --events prof\_trigger\_0x where x is 0, 1, …, 7. All counters are reset before each kernel launch (note that when collecting counters, kernel launches are synchronous as mentioned in Concurrent Execution between Host and Device).

## 10.32. Assertion

Assertion is only supported by devices of compute capability 2.x and higher.

```txt
void assert(int expression);
```

stops the kernel execution if expression is equal to zero. If the program is run within a debugger, this triggers a breakpoint and the debugger can be used to inspect the current state of the device. Otherwise, each thread for which expression is equal to zero prints a message to stderr after synchronization with the host via cudaDeviceSynchronize(), cudaStreamSynchronize(), or cudaEventSynchronize(). The format of this message is as follows:

```txt
<filename>:<line number>:<function>:
block: [blockId.x,blockId.x,blockIdx.z],
thread: [threadIdx.x,threadIdx.y,threadIdx.z]
Assertion `<expression>` failed.
```

Any subsequent host-side synchronization calls made for the same device will return cudaErrorAssert. No more commands can be sent to this device until cudaDeviceReset() is called to reinitialize the device.

If expression is diferent from zero, the kernel execution is unafected.

For example, the following program from source file test.cu

```c
#include <assert.h>

__global__ void testAssert(void)
{
    int is_one = 1;
    int should_be_one = 0;

    // This will have no effect
    assert(is_one);

    // This will halt kernel execution
    assert(should_be_one);
}

int main(int argc, char* argv[])
{
    testAssert<<<1,1>>>();
    cudaDeviceSynchronize();

    return 0;
}
```

will output:

```txt
test.cu:19: void testAssert(): block: [0,0,0], thread: [0,0,0] Assertion `should_be_ one` failed.
```

Assertions are for debugging purposes. They can afect performance and it is therefore recommended to disable them in production code. They can be disabled at compile time by defining the NDEBUG preprocessor macro before including assert.h. Note that expression should not be an expression with side efects (something like(++i > 0), for example), otherwise disabling the assertion will afect the functionality of the code.

## 10.33. Trap function

A trap operation can be initiated by calling the \_\_trap() function from any device thread.

```txt
void __trap();
```

The execution of the kernel is aborted and an interrupt is raised in the host program.

## 10.34. Breakpoint Function

Execution of a kernel function can be suspended by calling the \_\_brkpt() function from any device thread.

void \_\_brkpt();

## 10.35. Formatted Output

Formatted output is only supported by devices of compute capability 2.x and higher.

```c
int printf(const char *format[, arg, ...]);
```

prints formatted output from a kernel to a host-side output stream.

The in-kernel printf() function behaves in a similar way to the standard C-library printf() function, and the user is referred to the host system’s manual pages for a complete description of printf() behavior. In essence, the string passed in as format is output to a stream on the host, with substitutions made from the argument list wherever a format specifier is encountered. Supported format specifiers are listed below.

The printf() command is executed as any other device-side function: per-thread, and in the context of the calling thread. From a multi-threaded kernel, this means that a straightforward call to printf() will be executed by every thread, using that thread’s data as specified. Multiple versions of the output string will then appear at the host stream, once for each thread which encountered the printf().

It is up to the programmer to limit the output to a single thread if only a single output string is desired (see Examples for an illustrative example).

Unlike the C-standard printf(), which returns the number of characters printed, CUDA’s printf() returns the number of arguments parsed. If no arguments follow the format string, 0 is returned. If the format string is NULL, -1 is returned. If an internal error occurs, -2 is returned.

## 10.35.1. Format Specifiers

As for standard printf(), format specifiers take the form: %[flags][width][. precision][size]type

The following fields are supported (see widely-available documentation for a complete description of all behaviors):

```txt
▶ Flags: '#' ' ' '0' '+' '-'
```

▶ Width: '\*' '0-9'

▶ Precision: '0-9'

▶ Size: 'h' 'l' 'll

▶ Type: "%cdiouxXpeEfgGaAs"

Note that CUDA’s printf()will accept any combination of flag, width, precision, size and type, whether or not overall they form a valid format specifier. In other words, “%hd” will be accepted and printf will expect a double-precision variable in the corresponding location in the argument list.

## 10.35.2. Limitations

Final formatting of the printf()output takes place on the host system. This means that the format string must be understood by the host-system’s compiler and C library. Every efort has been made to ensure that the format specifiers supported by CUDA’s printf function form a universal subset from the most common host compilers, but exact behavior will be host-OS-dependent.

As described in Format Specifiers, printf() will accept all combinations of valid flags and types. This is because it cannot determine what will and will not be valid on the host system where the final output is formatted. The efect of this is that output may be undefined if the program emits a format string which contains invalid combinations.

The printf() command can accept at most 32 arguments in addition to the format string. Additional arguments beyond this will be ignored, and the format specifier output as-is.

Owing to the difering size of the long type on 64-bit Windows platforms (four bytes on 64-bit Windows platforms, eight bytes on other 64-bit platforms), a kernel which is compiled on a non-Windows 64-bit machine but then run on a win64 machine will see corrupted output for all format strings which include “%ld”. It is recommended that the compilation platform matches the execution platform to ensure safety.

The output bufer for printf() is set to a fixed size before kernel launch (see Associated Host-Side API). It is circular and if more output is produced during kernel execution than can fit in the bufer, older output is overwritten. It is flushed only when one of these actions is performed:

▶ Kernel launch via <<<>>> or cuLaunchKernel() (at the start of the launch, and if the CUDA\_LAUNCH\_BLOCKING environment variable is set to 1, at the end of the launch as well),

▶ Synchronization via cudaDeviceSynchronize(), cuCtxSynchronize(), cudaStreamSynchronize(), cuStreamSynchronize(), cudaEventSynchronize(), or cuEventSynchronize(),

▶ Memory copies via any blocking version of cudaMemcpy\*() or cuMemcpy\*(),

▶ Module loading/unloading via cuModuleLoad() or cuModuleUnload(),

▶ Context destruction via cudaDeviceReset() or cuCtxDestroy().

Prior to executing a stream callback added by cudaLaunchHostFunc or cuLaunchHostFunc.

Note that the bufer is not flushed automatically when the program exits. The user must call cudaDeviceReset() or cuCtxDestroy() explicitly, as shown in the examples below.

Internally printf() uses a shared data structure and so it is possible that calling printf() might change the order of execution of threads. In particular, a thread which calls printf() might take a longer execution path than one which does not call printf(), and that path length is dependent upon the parameters of the printf(). Note, however, that CUDA makes no guarantees of thread execution order except at explicit \_\_syncthreads() barriers, so it is impossible to tell whether execution order has been modified by printf() or by other scheduling behavior in the hardware.

## 10.35.3. Associated Host-Side API

The following API functions get and set the size of the bufer used to transfer the printf() arguments and internal metadata to the host (default is 1 megabyte):

▶ cudaDeviceGetLimit(size\_t\* size,cudaLimitPrintfFifoSize)

cudaDeviceSetLimit(cudaLimitPrintfFifoSize, size\_t size)

## 10.35.4. Examples

The following code sample:

```c
#include <stdio.h>

__global__ void helloCUDA(float f)
{
    printf("Hello thread %d, f=%f\n", threadIdx.x, f);
}

int main()
{
    helloCUDA<<<1, 5>>>(1.2345f);
    cudaDeviceSynchronize();
    return 0;
}
```

will output:

```txt
Hello thread 2, f=1.2345
Hello thread 1, f=1.2345
Hello thread 4, f=1.2345
Hello thread 0, f=1.2345
Hello thread 3, f=1.2345
```

Notice how each thread encounters the printf() command, so there are as many lines of output as there were threads launched in the grid. As expected, global values (i.e., float f) are common between all threads, and local values (i.e., threadIdx.x) are distinct per-thread.

The following code sample:

```c
#include <stdio.h>

__global__ void helloCUDA(float f)
{
    if (threadIdx.x == 0)
        printf("Hello thread %d, f=%f\n", threadIdx.x, f) ;
}

int main()
{
    helloCUDA<<<1, 5>>>(1.2345f);
    cudaDeviceSynchronize();
    return 0;
}
```

will output:

Hello thread 0, f=1.2345

Self-evidently, the if() statement limits which threads will call printf, so that only a single line of output is seen.

# 10.36. Dynamic Global Memory Allocation and Operations

Dynamic global memory allocation and operations are only supported by devices of compute capability 2.x and higher.

```c
__host__ __device__ void* malloc(size_t size);
__device__ void *__nv_aligned_device_malloc(size_t size, size_t align);
__host__ __device__ void free(void* ptr);
```

allocate and free memory dynamically from a fixed-size heap in global memory.

\_\_host\_\_ \_\_device\_\_ void\* memcpy(void\* dest, const void\* src, size\_t size);

copy size bytes from the memory location pointed by src to the memory location pointed by dest.

\_\_host\_\_ \_\_device\_\_ void\* memset(void\* ptr, int value, size\_t size);

set size bytes of memory block pointed by ptr to value (interpreted as an unsigned char).

The CUDA in-kernel malloc()function allocates at least size bytes from the device heap and returns a pointer to the allocated memory or NULL if insuficient memory exists to fulfill the request. The returned pointer is guaranteed to be aligned to a 16-byte boundary.

The CUDA in-kernel \_\_nv\_aligned\_device\_malloc() function allocates at least size bytes from the device heap and returns a pointer to the allocated memory or NULL if insuficient memory exists to fulfill the requested size or alignment. The address of the allocated memory will be a multiple of align. align must be a non-zero power of 2.

The CUDA in-kernel free() function deallocates the memory pointed to by ptr, which must have been returned by a previous call to malloc() or \_\_nv\_aligned\_device\_malloc(). If ptr is NULL, the call to free() is ignored. Repeated calls to free() with the same ptr has undefined behavior.

The memory allocated by a given CUDA thread via malloc() or \_\_nv\_aligned\_device\_malloc() remains allocated for the lifetime of the CUDA context, or until it is explicitly released by a call to free(). It can be used by any other CUDA threads even from subsequent kernel launches. Any CUDA thread may free memory allocated by another thread, but care should be taken to ensure that the same pointer is not freed more than once.

## 10.36.1. Heap Memory Allocation

The device memory heap has a fixed size that must be specified before any program using malloc(), \_\_nv\_aligned\_device\_malloc() or free() is loaded into the context. A default heap of eight megabytes is allocated if any program uses malloc() or \_\_nv\_aligned\_device\_malloc() without explicitly specifying the heap size.

The following API functions get and set the heap size:

cudaDeviceGetLimit(size\_t\* size, cudaLimitMallocHeapSize)

cudaDeviceSetLimit(cudaLimitMallocHeapSize, size\_t size)

The heap size granted will be at least size bytes. cuCtxGetLimit()and cudaDeviceGetLimit() return the currently requested heap size.

The actual memory allocation for the heap occurs when a module is loaded into the context, either explicitly via the CUDA driver API (see Module), or implicitly via the CUDA runtime API (see CUDA Runtime). If the memory allocation fails, the module load will generate a CUDA\_ERROR\_SHARED\_OBJECT\_INIT\_FAILED error.

Heap size cannot be changed once a module load has occurred and it does not resize dynamically according to need.

Memory reserved for the device heap is in addition to memory allocated through host-side CUDA API calls such as cudaMalloc().

## 10.36.2. Interoperability with Host Memory API

Memory allocated via device malloc() or \_\_nv\_aligned\_device\_malloc() cannot be freed using the runtime (i.e., by calling any of the free memory functions from Device Memory).

Similarly, memory allocated via the runtime (i.e., by calling any of the memory allocation functions from Device Memory) cannot be freed via free().

In addition, memory allocated by a call to malloc() or \_\_nv\_aligned\_device\_malloc() in device code cannot be used in any runtime or driver API calls (i.e. cudaMemcpy, cudaMemset, etc).

## 10.36.3. Examples

## 10.36.3.1 Per Thread Allocation

The following code sample:

```c
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <stdio.h>

__global__ void mallocTest()
{
    size_t size = 123;
    char* ptr = (char*)malloc(size);
    memset(ptr, 0, size);
    printf("Thread %d got pointer: %p\n", threadIdx.x, ptr);
```

(continues on next page)

```cpp
free(ptr);
}

int main()
{
    // Set a heap size of 128 megabytes. Note that this must
    // be done before any kernel is launched.
    cudaDeviceSetLimit(cudaLimitMallocHeapSize, 128*1024*1024);
    mallocTest<<<1, 5>>>();
    cudaDeviceSynchronize();
    return 0;
}
```

(continued from previous page)

will output:

```txt
Thread 0 got pointer: 00057020
Thread 1 got pointer: 0005708c
Thread 2 got pointer: 000570f8
Thread 3 got pointer: 00057164
Thread 4 got pointer: 000571d0
```

Notice how each thread encounters the malloc() and memset() commands and so receives and initializes its own allocation. (Exact pointer values will vary: these are illustrative.)

## 10.36.3.2 Per Thread Block Allocation

```c
#include <stdlib.h>

__global__ void mallocTest()
{
    __shared__ int* data;

    // The first thread in the block does the allocation and then
    // shares the pointer with all other threads through shared memory,
    // so that access can easily be coalesced.
    // 64 bytes per thread are allocated.
    if (threadIdx.x == 0) {
        size_t size = blockDim.x * 64;
        data = (int*)malloc(size);
    }
    __syncthreads();

    // Check for failure
    if (data == NULL)
        return;

    // Threads index into the memory, ensuring coalescence
    int* ptr = data;
    for (int i = 0; i < 64; ++i)
        ptr[i * blockDim.x + threadIdx.x] = threadIdx.x;

    // Ensure all threads complete before freeing
    __syncthreads();

    // Only one thread may free the memory!
```

(continues on next page)

```txt
if (threadIdx.x == 0)
        free(data);
}

int main()
{
    cudaDeviceSetLimit(cudaLimitMallocHeapSize, 128*1024*1024);
    mallocTest<<<10, 128>>>();
    cudaDeviceSynchronize();
    return 0;
}
```

(continued from previous page)

## 10.36.3.3 Allocation Persisting Between Kernel Launches

```c
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <stdio.h>

#define NUM_BLOCKS 20

__device__ int* dataptr[NUM_BLOCKS]; // Per-block pointer

__global__ void allocmem()
{
    // Only the first thread in the block does the allocation
    // since we want only one allocation per block.
    if (threadIdx.x == 0)
        dataptr[blockIdx.x] = (int*)malloc(blockDim.x * 4);
    __syncthreads();

    // Check for failure
    if (dataptr[blockIdx.x] == NULL)
        return;

    // Zero the data with all threads in parallel
    dataptr[blockIdx.x][threadIdx.x] = 0;
}

// Simple example: store thread ID into each element
__global__ void usemem()
{
    int* ptr = dataptr[blockIdx.x];
    if (ptr != NULL)
        ptr[threadIdx.x] += threadIdx.x;
}

// Print the content of the buffer before freeing it
__global__ void freemem()
{
    int* ptr = dataptr[blockIdx.x];
    if (ptr != NULL)
        printf("Block %d, Thread %d: final value = %d\n",
            blockIdx.x, threadIdx.x, ptr[threadIdx.x]);

    // Only free from one thread!
```

(continues on next page)

(continued from previous page)

```cpp
if (threadIdx.x == 0)
    free(ptr);
}

int main()
{
    cudaDeviceSetLimit(cudaLimitMallocHeapSize, 128*1024*1024);

    // Allocate memory
    allocmem<<< NUM_BLOCKS, 10 >>>();

    // Use memory
    usemem<<< NUM_BLOCKS, 10 >>>();
    usemem<<< NUM_BLOCKS, 10 >>>();
    usemem<<< NUM_BLOCKS, 10 >>>();

    // Free memory
    freemem<<< NUM_BLOCKS, 10 >>>();

    cudaDeviceSynchronize();

    return 0;
}
```
