## 10.44. CUDA C++ Memory Model

The CUDA C++ Memory Model extends the ISO C++ Memory Model as documented in the CUDA C++ Memory Model documentation.

## 10.45. CUDA C++ Execution Model

The CUDA C++ Exeuction Model extends the ISO C++ execution model as documented in the CUDA C++ Execution Model documentation.

## Chapter 11. Cooperative Groups

Warning: This document has been replaced by a new CUDA Programming Guide. The information in this document should be considered legacy, and this document is no longer being updated as of CUDA 13.0. Please refer to the CUDA Programming Guide for up-to-date information on CUDA.

## 11.1. Introduction

Cooperative Groups is an extension to the CUDA programming model, introduced in CUDA 9, for organizing groups of communicating threads. Cooperative Groups allows developers to express the granularity at which threads are communicating, helping them to express richer, more eficient parallel decompositions.

Historically, the CUDA programming model has provided a single, simple construct for synchronizing cooperating threads: a barrier across all threads of a thread block, as implemented with the \_\_syncthreads() intrinsic function. However, programmers would like to define and synchronize groups of threads at other granularities to enable greater performance, design flexibility, and software reuse in the form of “collective” group-wide function interfaces. In an efort to express broader patterns of parallel interaction, many performance-oriented programmers have resorted to writing their own ad hoc and unsafe primitives for synchronizing threads within a single warp, or across sets of thread blocks running on a single GPU. Whilst the performance improvements achieved have often been valuable, this has resulted in an ever-growing collection of brittle code that is expensive to write, tune, and maintain over time and across GPU generations. Cooperative Groups addresses this by providing a safe and future-proof mechanism to enable performant code.

## 11.2. What’s New in Cooperative Groups

## 11.2.1. CUDA 13.0

▶ multi\_grid\_group was removed.

## 11.2.2. CUDA 12.2

barrier\_arrive and barrier\_wait member functions were added for grid\_group and thread\_block. Description of the API is available here.

## 11.2.3. CUDA 12.1

▶ invoke\_one and invoke\_one\_broadcast APIs were added.

## 11.2.4. CUDA 12.0

▶ The following experimental APIs are now moved to the main namespace:

▶ asynchronous reduce and scan update added in CUDA 11.7

1 thread\_block\_tile larger than 32 added in CUDA 11.1

It is no longer required to provide memory using the block\_tile\_memory object in order to create these large tiles on Compute Capability 8.0 or higher.

## 11.3. Programming Model Concept

The Cooperative Groups programming model describes synchronization patterns both within and across CUDA thread blocks. It provides both the means for applications to define their own groups of threads, and the interfaces to synchronize them. It also provides new launch APIs that enforce certain restrictions and therefore can guarantee the synchronization will work. These primitives enable new patterns of cooperative parallelism within CUDA, including producer-consumer parallelism, opportunistic parallelism, and global synchronization across the entire Grid.

The Cooperative Groups programming model consists of the following elements:

▶ Data types for representing groups of cooperating threads;

▶ Operations to obtain implicit groups defined by the CUDA launch API (e.g., thread blocks);

▶ Collectives for partitioning existing groups into new groups;

▶ Collective Algorithms for data movement and manipulation (e.g. memcpy\_async, reduce, scan);

▶ An operation to synchronize all threads within the group;

Operations to inspect the group properties;

▶ Collectives that expose low-level, group-specific and often HW accelerated, operations.

The main concept in Cooperative Groups is that of objects naming the set of threads that are part of it. This expression of groups as first-class program objects improves software composition, since collective functions can receive an explicit object representing the group of participating threads. This object also makes programmer intent explicit, which eliminates unsound architectural assumptions that result in brittle code, undesirable restrictions upon compiler optimizations, and better compatibility with new GPU generations.

To write eficient code, its best to use specialized groups (going generic loses a lot of compile time optimizations), and pass these group objects by reference to functions that intend to use these threads in some cooperative fashion.

Cooperative Groups requires CUDA 9.0 or later. To use Cooperative Groups, include the header file:

```c
// Primary header is compatible with pre-C++11, collective algorithm headers require
C++11
#include <cooperative_groups.h>
// Optionally include for memcpy_async() collective
#include <cooperative_groups/memcpy_async.h>
// Optionally include for reduce() collective
#include <cooperative_groups/reduce.h>
// Optionally include for inclusive_scan() and exclusive_scan() collectives
#include <cooperative_groups/scan.h>
```

and use the Cooperative Groups namespace:

```txt
using namespace cooperative_groups;
// Alternatively use an alias to avoid polluting the namespace with collective
← algorithms
namespace cg = cooperative_groups;
```

The code can be compiled in a normal way using nvcc, however if you wish to use memcpy\_async, reduce or scan functionality and your host compiler’s default dialect is not C++11 or higher, then you must add --std=c++11 to the command line.

## 11.3.1. Composition Example

To illustrate the concept of groups, this example attempts to perform a block-wide sum reduction. Previously, there were hidden constraints on the implementation when writing this code:

```lisp
__device__ int sum(int *x, int n) {
    // ...
    __syncthreads();
    return total;
}

__global__ void parallel_kernel(float *x) {
    // ...
    // Entire thread block must call sum
    sum(x, n);
}
```

All threads in the thread block must arrive at the \_\_syncthreads() barrier, however, this constraint is hidden from the developer who might want to use sum(…). With Cooperative Groups, a better way of writing this would be:

```lisp
__device__ int sum(const thread_block& g, int *x, int n) {
    // ...
    g.sync()
    return total;
}

__global__ void parallel_kernel(...) {
```

(continues on next page)

```txt
// ...
    // Entire thread block must call sum
    thread_block tb = this_thread_block();
    sum(tb, x, n);
    // ...
}
```

(continued from previous page)

## 11.4. Group Types

## 11.4.1. Implicit Groups

Implicit groups represent the launch configuration of the kernel. Regardless of how your kernel is written, it always has a set number of threads, blocks and block dimensions, a single grid and grid dimensions. In addition, if the multi-device cooperative launch API is used, it can have multiple grids (single grid per device). These groups provide a starting point for decomposition into finer grained groups which are typically HW accelerated and are more specialized for the problem the developer is solving.

Although you can create an implicit group anywhere in the code, it is dangerous to do so. Creating a handle for an implicit group is a collective operation—all threads in the group must participate. If the group was created in a conditional branch that not all threads reach, this can lead to deadlocks or data corruption. For this reason, it is recommended that you create a handle for the implicit group upfront (as early as possible, before any branching has occurred) and use that handle throughout the kernel. Group handles must be initialized at declaration time (there is no default constructor) for the same reason and copy-constructing them is discouraged.

## 11.4.1.1 Thread Block Group

Any CUDA programmer is already familiar with a certain group of threads: the thread block. The Cooperative Groups extension introduces a new datatype, thread\_block, to explicitly represent this concept within the kernel.

class thread\_block;

Constructed via:

```javascript
thread_block g = this_thread_block();
```

## Public Member Functions:

static void sync(): Synchronize the threads named in the group, equivalent to g. barrier\_wait(g.barrier\_arrive())

thread\_block::arrival\_token barrier\_arrive(): Arrive on the thread\_block barrier, returns a token that needs to be passed into barrier\_wait(). More details here

void barrier\_wait(thread\_block::arrival\_token&& t): Wait on the thread\_block barrier, takes arrival token returned from barrier\_arrive() as an rvalue reference. More details here

static unsigned int thread\_rank(): Rank of the calling thread within [0, num\_threads) static dim3 group\_index(): 3-Dimensional index of the block within the launched grid

static dim3 thread\_index(): 3-Dimensional index of the thread within the launched block static dim3 dim\_threads(): Dimensions of the launched block in units of threads static unsigned int num\_threads(): Total number of threads in the group

Legacy member functions (aliases):

static unsigned int size(): Total number of threads in the group (alias of num\_threads())

static dim3 group\_dim(): Dimensions of the launched block (alias of dim\_threads())

## Example:

```txt
/// Loading an integer from global into shared memory
__global__ void kernel(int *globalInput) {
    __shared__ int x;
    thread_block g = this_thread_block();
    // Choose a leader in the thread block
    if (g.thread_rank() == 0) {
        // load from global into shared for all threads to work with
        x = (*globalInput);
    }
    // After loading data into shared memory, you want to synchronize
    // if all threads in your thread block need to see it
    g.sync(); // equivalent to __syncthreads();
}
```

Note: that all threads in the group must participate in collective operations, or the behavior is undefined.

Related: The thread\_block datatype is derived from the more generic thread\_group datatype, which can be used to represent a wider class of groups.

## 11.4.1.2 Cluster Group

This group object represents all the threads launched in a single cluster. Refer to Thread Block Clusters. The APIs are available on all hardware with Compute Capability 9.0+. In such cases, when a non-cluster grid is launched, the APIs assume a 1x1x1 cluster.

class cluster\_group;

Constructed via:

```javascript
cluster_group g = this_cluster();
```

## Public Member Functions:

static void sync(): Synchronize the threads named in the group, equivalent to g. barrier\_wait(g.barrier\_arrive())

static cluster\_group::arrival\_token barrier\_arrive(): Arrive on the cluster barrier, returns a token that needs to be passed into barrier\_wait(). More details here

static void barrier\_wait(cluster\_group::arrival\_token&& t): Wait on the cluster barrier, takes arrival token returned from barrier\_arrive() as a rvalue reference. More details here

static unsigned int thread\_rank(): Rank of the calling thread within [0, num\_threads)

static unsigned int block\_rank(): Rank of the calling block within [0, num\_blocks)

static unsigned int num\_threads(): Total number of threads in the group

static unsigned int num\_blocks(): Total number of blocks in the group

static dim3 dim\_threads(): Dimensions of the launched cluster in units of threads

static dim3 dim\_blocks(): Dimensions of the launched cluster in units of blocks

static dim3 block\_index(): 3-Dimensional index of the calling block within the launched cluster

static unsigned int query\_shared\_rank(const void \*addr): Obtain the block rank to which a shared memory address belongs

static T\* map\_shared\_rank(T \*addr, int rank): Obtain the address of a shared memory variable of another block in the cluster

Legacy member functions (aliases):

static unsigned int size(): Total number of threads in the group (alias of num\_threads())

## 11.4.1.3 Grid Group

This group object represents all the threads launched in a single grid. APIs other than sync() are available at all times, but to be able to synchronize across the grid, you need to use the cooperative launch API.

class grid\_group;

Constructed via:

```txt
grid_group g = this_grid();
```

## Public Member Functions:

bool is\_valid() const: Returns whether the grid\_group can synchronize

void sync() const: Synchronize the threads named in the group, equivalent to g. barrier\_wait(g.barrier\_arrive())

grid\_group::arrival\_token barrier\_arrive(): Arrive on the grid barrier, returns a token that needs to be passed into barrier\_wait(). More details here

void barrier\_wait(grid\_group::arrival\_token&& t): Wait on the grid barrier, takes arrival token returned from barrier\_arrive() as a rvalue reference. More details here

static unsigned long long thread\_rank(): Rank of the calling thread within [0, num\_threads)

static unsigned long long block\_rank(): Rank of the calling block within [0, num\_blocks)

static unsigned long long cluster\_rank(): Rank of the calling cluster within [0, num\_clusters)

static unsigned long long num\_threads(): Total number of threads in the group

static unsigned long long num\_blocks(): Total number of blocks in the group

static unsigned long long num\_clusters(): Total number of clusters in the group

static dim3 dim\_blocks(): Dimensions of the launched grid in units of blocks

static dim3 dim\_clusters(): Dimensions of the launched grid in units of clusters

static dim3 block\_index(): 3-Dimensional index of the block within the launched grid

static dim3 cluster\_index(): 3-Dimensional index of the cluster within the launched grid

Legacy member functions (aliases):

static unsigned long long size(): Total number of threads in the group (alias of num\_threads())

static dim3 group\_dim(): Dimensions of the launched grid (alias of dim\_blocks())

## 11.4.2. Explicit Groups

## 11.4.2.1 Thread Block Tile

A templated version of a tiled group, where a template parameter is used to specify the size of the tile - with this known at compile time there is the potential for more optimal execution.

```dart
template <unsigned int Size, typename ParentT = void>
class thread_block_tile;
```

Constructed via:

```c
template <unsigned int Size, typename ParentT>
_CG_QUALIFIER thread_block_tile<Size, ParentT> tiled_partition(const ParentT& g)
```

Size must be a power of 2 and less than or equal to 1024. Notes section describes extra steps needed to create tiles of size larger than 32 on hardware with Compute Capability 7.5 or lower.

ParentT is the parent-type from which this group was partitioned. It is automatically inferred, but a value of void will store this information in the group handle rather than in the type.

## Public Member Functions:

void sync() const: Synchronize the threads named in the group

unsigned long long num\_threads() const: Total number of threads in the group

unsigned long long thread\_rank() const: Rank of the calling thread within [0, num\_threads)

unsigned long long meta\_group\_size() const: Returns the number of groups created when the parent group was partitioned.

unsigned long long meta\_group\_rank() const: Linear rank of the group within the set of tiles partitioned from a parent group (bounded by meta\_group\_size)

T shfl(T var, unsigned int src\_rank) const: Refer to Warp Shufle Functions, Note: For sizes larger than 32 all threads in the group have to specify the same src\_rank, otherwise the behavior is undefined.

T shfl\_up(T var, int delta) const: Refer to Warp Shufle Functions, available only for sizes lower or equal to 32.

T shfl\_down(T var, int delta) const: Refer to Warp Shufle Functions, available only for sizes lower or equal to 32

T shfl\_xor(T var, int delta) const: Refer to Warp Shufle Functions, available only for sizes lower or equal to 32.

int any(int predicate) const: Refer to Warp Vote Functions

int all(int predicate) const: Refer to Warp Vote Functions

unsigned int ballot(int predicate) const: Refer to Warp Vote Functions, available only for sizes lower or equal to 32.

unsigned int match\_any(T val) const: Refer to Warp Match Functions, available only for sizes lower or equal to 32.

unsigned int match\_all(T val, int &pred) const: Refer to Warp Match Functions, available only for sizes lower or equal to 32.

Legacy member functions (aliases):

unsigned long long size() const: Total number of threads in the group (alias of num\_threads())

## Notes:

▶ thread\_block\_tile templated data structure is being used here, the size of the group is passed to the tiled\_partition call as a template parameter rather than an argument.

shfl, shfl\_up, shfl\_down, and shfl\_xor functions accept objects of any type when compiled with C++11 or later. This means it’s possible to shufle non-integral types as long as they satisfy the below constraints:

Qualifies as trivially copyable i.e., is\_trivially\_copyable<T>::value == true

▶ sizeof(T) <= 32 for tile sizes lower or equal 32, sizeof(T) <= 8 for larger tiles

On hardware with Compute Capability 7.5 or lower tiles of size larger than 32 need small amount of memory reserved for them. This can be done using cooperative\_groups::block\_tile\_memory struct template that has to reside in either shared or global memory.

```txt
template <unsigned int MaxBlockSize = 1024>
struct block_tile_memory;
```

MaxBlockSize Specifies the maximal number of threads in the current thread block. This parameter can be used to minimize the shared memory usage of block\_tile\_memory in kernels launched only with smaller thread counts.

This block\_tile\_memory needs be then passed into cooperative\_groups::this\_thread\_block, allowing the resulting thread\_block to be partitioned into tiles of sizes larger than 32. Overload of this\_thread\_block accepting block\_tile\_memory argument is a collective operation and has to be called with all threads in the thread\_block.

block\_tile\_memory can be used on hardware with Compute Capability 8.0 or higher in order to be able to write one source targeting multiple diferent Compute Capabilities. It should consume no memory when instantiated in shared memory in cases where its not required.

## Examples:

```rust
/// The following code will create two sets of tiled groups, of size 32 and 4
→respectively:
/// The latter has the provenance encoded in the type, while the first stores it in the
→handle
thread_block block = this_thread_block();
thread_block_tile<32> tile32 = tiled_partition<32>(block);
thread_block_tile<4, thread_block> tile4 = tiled_partition<4>(block);
```

```txt
/// The following code will create tiles of size 128 on all Compute Capabilities.
/// block_tile_memory can be omitted on Compute Capability 8.0 or higher.
__global__ void kernel(...) {
    // reserve shared memory for thread_block_tile usage,
```

(continues on next page)

```dart
//   specify that block size will be at most 256 threads.
__shared__ block_tile_memory<256> shared;
thread_block thb = this_thread_block(shared);

// Create tiles with 128 threads.
auto tile = tiled_partition<128>(thb);

// ...
}
```

(continued from previous page)

## 11.4.2.1.1 Warp-Synchronous Code Pattern

Developers might have had warp-synchronous codes that they previously made implicit assumptions about the warp size and would code around that number. Now this needs to be specified explicitly.

```lisp
__global__ void cooperative_kernel(...) {
    // obtain default "current thread block" group
    thread_block my_block = this_thread_block();

    // subdivide into 32-thread, tiled subgroups
    // Tiled subgroups evenly partition a parent group into
    // adjacent sets of threads - in this case each one warp in size
    auto my_tile = tiled_partition<32>(my_block);

    // This operation will be performed by only the
    // first 32-thread tile of each block
    if (my_tile.meta_group_rank() == 0) {
        // ...
        my_tile.sync();
    }
}
```

## 11.4.2.1.2 Single Thread Group

Group representing the current thread can be obtained from this\_thread function:

```txt
thread_block_tile<1> this_thread();
```

The following memcpy\_async API uses a thread\_group, to copy an int element from source to destination:

```c
#include <cooperative_groups.h>
#include <cooperative_groups/memcpy_async.h>

cooperative_groups::memcpy_async(cooperative_groups::this_thread(), dest, src,
sizeof(int));
```

More detailed examples of using this\_thread to perform asynchronous copies can be found in the Single-Stage Asynchronous Data Copies using cuda::pipeline and Multi-Stage Asynchronous Data Copies using cuda::pipeline sections.

## 11.4.2.2 Coalesced Groups

In CUDA’s SIMT architecture, at the hardware level the multiprocessor executes threads in groups of 32 called warps. If there exists a data-dependent conditional branch in the application code such that threads within a warp diverge, then the warp serially executes each branch disabling threads not on that path. The threads that remain active on the path are referred to as coalesced. Cooperative Groups has functionality to discover, and create, a group containing all coalesced threads.

Constructing the group handle via coalesced\_threads() is opportunistic. It returns the set of active threads at that point in time, and makes no guarantee about which threads are returned (as long as they are active) or that they will stay coalesced throughout execution (they will be brought back together for the execution of a collective but can diverge again afterwards).

class coalesced\_group;

Constructed via:

coalesced\_group active = coalesced\_threads();

## Public Member Functions:

void sync() const: Synchronize the threads named in the group

unsigned long long num\_threads() const: Total number of threads in the group

unsigned long long thread\_rank() const: Rank of the calling thread within [0, num\_threads)

unsigned long long meta\_group\_size() const: Returns the number of groups created when the parent group was partitioned. If this group was created by querying the set of active threads, for example coalesced\_threads() the value of meta\_group\_size() will be 1.

unsigned long long meta\_group\_rank() const: Linear rank of the group within the set of tiles partitioned from a parent group (bounded by meta\_group\_size). If this group was created by querying the set of active threads, e.g. coalesced\_threads() the value of meta\_group\_rank() will always be 0.

T shfl(T var, unsigned int src\_rank) const: Refer to Warp Shufle Functions

T shfl\_up(T var, int delta) const: Refer to Warp Shufle Functions

T shfl\_down(T var, int delta) const: Refer to Warp Shufle Functions

int any(int predicate) const: Refer to Warp Vote Functions

int all(int predicate) const: Refer to Warp Vote Functions

unsigned int ballot(int predicate) const: Refer to Warp Vote Functions

unsigned int match\_any(T val) const: Refer to Warp Match Functions

unsigned int match\_all(T val, int &pred) const: Refer to Warp Match Functions

Legacy member functions (aliases):

unsigned long long size() const: Total number of threads in the group (alias of num\_threads())

## Notes:

shfl, shfl\_up, and shfl\_down functions accept objects of any type when compiled with C++11 or later. This means it’s possible to shufle non-integral types as long as they satisfy the below constraints:

▶ Qualifies as trivially copyable i.e. is\_trivially\_copyable<T>::value == true

```txt
▶ sizeof(T) <= 32
```

```rust
/// Consider a situation whereby there is a branch in the
/// code in which only the 2nd, 4th and 8th threads in each warp are
/// active. The coalesced_threads() call, placed in that branch, will create (for each
/// warp) a group, active, that has three threads (with
/// ranks 0-2 inclusive).
__global__ void kernel(int *globalInput) {
    // Lets say globalInput says that threads 2, 4, 8 should handle the data
    if (threadIdx.x == *globalInput) {
        coalesced_group active = coalesced_threads();
        // active contains 0-2 inclusive
        active.sync();
    }
}
```

## 11.4.2.2.1 Discovery Pattern

Commonly developers need to work with the current active set of threads. No assumption is made about the threads that are present, and instead developers work with the threads that happen to be there. This is seen in the following “aggregating atomic increment across threads in a warp” example (written using the correct CUDA 9.0 set of intrinsics):

```c
{
    unsigned int writemask = __activemask();
    unsigned int total = __popc(writemask);
    unsigned int prefix = __popc(writemask & __lanemask_lt());
    // Find the lowest-numbered active lane
    int elected_lane = __ffs(writemask) - 1;
    int base_offset = 0;
    if (prefix == 0) {
        base_offset = atomicAdd(p, total);
    }
    base_offset = __shfl_sync(writemask, base_offset, elected_lane);
    int thread_offset = prefix + base_offset;
    return thread_offset;
}
```

This can be re-written with Cooperative Groups as follows:

```cpp
{
    cg::coalesced_group g = cg::coalesced_threads();
    int prev;
    if (g.thread_rank() == 0) {
        prev = atomicAdd(p, g.num_threads());
    }
    prev = g.thread_rank() + g.shfl(prev, 0);
    return prev;
}
```

## 11.5. Group Partitioning

## 11.5.1. tiled\_partition

```c
template <unsigned int Size, typename ParentT>
thread_block_tile<Size, ParentT> tiled_partition(const ParentT& g);
```

thread\_group tiled\_partition(const thread\_group& parent, unsigned int tilesz);

The tiled\_partition method is a collective operation that partitions the parent group into a onedimensional, row-major, tiling of subgroups. A total of ((size(parent)/tilesz) subgroups will be created, therefore the parent group size must be evenly divisible by the Size. The allowed parent groups are thread\_block or thread\_block\_tile.

The implementation may cause the calling thread to wait until all the members of the parent group have invoked the operation before resuming execution. Functionality is limited to native hardware sizes, 1/2/4/8/16/32 and the cg::size(parent) must be greater than the Size parameter. The templated version of tiled\_partition supports 64/128/256/512 sizes as well, but some additional steps are required on Compute Capability 7.5 or lower, refer to Thread Block Tile for details.

Codegen Requirements: Compute Capability 5.0 minimum, C++11 for sizes larger than 32

## Example:

```c
/// The following code will create a 32-thread tile
thread_block block = this_thread_block();
thread_block_tile<32> tile32 = tiled_partition<32>(block);
```

We can partition each of these groups into even smaller groups, each of size 4 threads:

```txt
auto tile4 = tiled_partition<4>(tile32);
// or using a general group
// thread_group tile4 = tiled_partition(tile32, 4);
```

If, for instance, if we were to then include the following line of code:

```javascript
if (tile4.thread_rank()==0) printf("Hello from tile4 rank 0\n");
```

then the statement would be printed by every fourth thread in the block: the threads of rank 0 in each tile4 group, which correspond to those threads with ranks 0,4,8,12,etc. in the block group.
