## 13.6.2.1.2 Streams (CDP1)

See Streams, above, for CDP2 version of document.

Both named and unnamed (NULL) streams are available from the device runtime. Named streams may be used by any thread within a thread-block, but stream handles may not be passed to other blocks or child/parent kernels. In other words, a stream should be treated as private to the block in which it is created. Stream handles are not guaranteed to be unique between blocks, so using a stream handle within a block that did not allocate it will result in undefined behavior.

Similar to host-side launch, work launched into separate streams may run concurrently, but actual concurrency is not guaranteed. Programs that depend upon concurrency between child kernels are not supported by the CUDA programming model and will have undefined behavior.

The host-side NULL stream’s cross-stream barrier semantic is not supported on the device (see below for details). In order to retain semantic compatibility with the host runtime, all device streams must be created using the cudaStreamCreateWithFlags() API, passing the cudaStreamNonBlocking flag. The cudaStreamCreate() call is a host-runtime- only API and will fail to compile for the device.

As cudaStreamSynchronize() and cudaStreamQuery() are unsupported by the device runtime, cudaDeviceSynchronize() should be used instead when the application needs to know that stream-launched child kernels have completed.

Warning: Explicit synchronization with child kernels from a parent block (i.e. using cudaDeviceSynchronize() in device code) is deprecated in CUDA 11.6, removed for compute\_90+ com pilation, and is slated for full removal in a future CUDA release.

## 13.6.2.1.2.1 The Implicit (NULL) Stream (CDP1)

See The Implicit (NULL) Stream, above, for CDP2 version of document.

Within a host program, the unnamed (NULL) stream has additional barrier synchronization semantics with other streams (see Default Stream for details). The device runtime ofers a single implicit, unnamed stream shared between all threads in a block, but as all named streams must be created with the cudaStreamNonBlocking flag, work launched into the NULL stream will not insert an implicit dependency on pending work in any other streams (including NULL streams of other thread blocks).

## 13.6.2.1.3 Events (CDP1)

See Events, above, for CDP2 version of document.

Only the inter-stream synchronization capabilities of CUDA events are supported. This means that cudaStreamWaitEvent() is supported, but cudaEventSynchronize(), cudaEventElapsedTime(), and cudaEventQuery() are not. As cudaEventElapsedTime() is not supported, cudaEvents must be created via cudaEventCreateWithFlags(), passing the cudaEventDisableTiming flag.

As for all device runtime objects, event objects may be shared between all threads within the threadblock which created them but are local to that block and may not be passed to other kernels, or between blocks within the same kernel. Event handles are not guaranteed to be unique between blocks, so using an event handle within a block that did not create it will result in undefined behavior.

## 13.6.2.1.4 Synchronization (CDP1)

See Synchronization, above, for CDP2 version of document.

Warning: Explicit synchronization with child kernels from a parent block (i.e. using cudaDeviceSynchronize() in device code) is deprecated in CUDA 11.6, removed for compute\_90+ com pilation, and is slated for full removal in a future CUDA release.

The cudaDeviceSynchronize() function will synchronize on all work launched by any thread in the thread-block up to the point where cudaDeviceSynchronize() was called. Note that cudaDeviceSynchronize() may be called from within divergent code (see Block Wide Synchronization (CDP1)).

It is up to the program to perform suficient additional inter-thread synchronization, for example via a call to \_\_syncthreads(), if the calling thread is intended to synchronize with child grids invoked from other threads.

## 13.6.2.1.4.1 Block Wide Synchronization (CDP1)

See CUDA Dynamic Parallelism, above, for CDP2 version of document.

The cudaDeviceSynchronize() function does not imply intra-block synchronization. In particular, without explicit synchronization via a \_\_syncthreads() directive the calling thread can make no assumptions about what work has been launched by any thread other than itself. For example if multiple threads within a block are each launching work and synchronization is desired for all this work at once (perhaps because of event-based dependencies), it is up to the program to guarantee that this work is submitted by all threads before calling cudaDeviceSynchronize().

Because the implementation is permitted to synchronize on launches from any thread in the block, it is quite possible that simultaneous calls to cudaDeviceSynchronize() by multiple threads will drain all work in the first call and then have no efect for the later calls.

## 13.6.2.1.5 Device Management (CDP1)

See Device Management, above, for CDP2 version of document.

Only the device on which a kernel is running will be controllable from that kernel. This means that device APIs such as cudaSetDevice() are not supported by the device runtime. The active device as seen from the GPU (returned from cudaGetDevice()) will have the same device number as seen from the host system. The cudaDeviceGetAttribute() call may request information about another device as this API allows specification of a device ID as a parameter of the call. Note that the catch-all cudaGetDeviceProperties() API is not ofered by the device runtime - properties must be queried individually.

## 13.6.2.1.6 Memory Declarations (CDP1)

See Memory Declarations, above, for CDP2 version of document.

## 13.6.2.1.6.1 Device and Constant Memory (CDP1)

See Device and Constant Memory, above, for CDP2 version of document.

Memory declared at file scope with \_\_device\_\_ or \_\_constant\_\_ memory space specifiers behaves identically when using the device runtime. All kernels may read or write device variables, whether the kernel was initially launched by the host or device runtime. Equivalently, all kernels will have the same view of \_\_constant\_\_s as declared at the module scope.

## 13.6.2.1.6.2 Textures and Surfaces (CDP1)

See Textures and Surfaces, above, for CDP2 version of document.

CUDA supports dynamically created texture and surface objects<sup>Page</sup> <sup>327,</sup> <sup>7</sup>, where a texture object may be created on the host, passed to a kernel, used by that kernel, and then destroyed from the host. The device runtime does not allow creation or destruction of texture or surface objects from within device code, but texture and surface objects created from the host may be used and passed around freely on the device. Regardless of where they are created, dynamically created texture objects are always valid and may be passed to child kernels from a parent.

Note: The device runtime does not support legacy module-scope (i.e., Fermi-style) textures and surfaces within a kernel launched from the device. Module-scope (legacy) textures may be created from the host and used in device code as for any kernel, but may only be used by a top-level kernel (i.e., the one which is launched from the host).

## 13.6.2.1.6.3 Shared Memory Variable Declarations (CDP1)

See Shared Memory Variable Declarations, above, for CDP2 version of document.

In CUDA C++ shared memory can be declared either as a statically sized file-scope or function-scoped variable, or as an extern variable with the size determined at runtime by the kernel’s caller via a launch configuration argument. Both types of declarations are valid under the device runtime.

```txt
__global__ void permute(int n, int *data) {
    extern __shared__ int smem[];
    if (n <= 1)
        return;

    smem[threadIdx.x] = data[threadIdx.x];
    __syncthreads();

    permute_data(smem, n);
    __syncthreads();

    // Write back to GMEM since we can't pass SMEM to children.
    data[threadIdx.x] = smem[threadIdx.x];
    __syncthreads();

    if (threadIdx.x == 0) {
        permute<<< 1, 256, n/2*sizeof(int) >>>(n/2, data);
        permute<<< 1, 256, n/2*sizeof(int) >>>(n/2, data+n/2);
    }
}

void host_launch(int *data) {
    permute<<< 1, 256, 256*sizeof(int) >>>(256, data);
}
```

## 13.6.2.1.6.4 Symbol Addresses (CDP1)

See Symbol Addresses, above, for CDP2 version of document.

Device-side symbols (i.e., those marked \_\_device\_\_) may be referenced from within a kernel simply via the & operator, as all global-scope device variables are in the kernel’s visible address space. This also applies to \_\_constant\_\_ symbols, although in this case the pointer will reference read-only data.

Given that device-side symbols can be referenced directly, those CUDA runtime APIs which reference symbols (for example, cudaMemcpyToSymbol() or cudaGetSymbolAddress()) are redundant and hence not supported by the device runtime. Note this implies that constant data cannot be altered from within a running kernel, even ahead of a child kernel launch, as references to \_\_constant\_\_ space are read-only.

## 13.6.2.1.7 API Errors and Launch Failures (CDP1)

See API Errors and Launch Failures, above, for CDP2 version of document.

As usual for the CUDA runtime, any function may return an error code. The last error code returned is recorded and may be retrieved via the cudaGetLastError() call. Errors are recorded per-thread, so that each thread can identify the most recent error that it has generated. The error code is of type cudaError\_t.

Similar to a host-side launch, device-side launches may fail for many reasons (invalid arguments, and so on). The user must call cudaGetLastError() to determine if a launch generated an error, however lack of an error after launch does not imply the child kernel completed successfully.

For device-side exceptions, for example, access to an invalid address, an error in a child grid will be returned to the host instead of being returned by the parent’s call to cudaDeviceSynchronize().

## 13.6.2.1.7.1 Launch Setup APIs (CDP1)

See Launch Setup APIs, above, for CDP2 version of document.

Kernel launch is a system-level mechanism exposed through the device runtime library, and as such is available directly from PTX via the underlying cudaGetParameterBuffer() and cudaLaunchDevice() APIs. It is permitted for a CUDA application to call these APIs itself, with the same requirements as for PTX. In both cases, the user is then responsible for correctly populating all necessary data structures in the correct format according to specification. Backwards compatibility is guaranteed in these data structures.

As with host-side launch, the device-side operator <<<>>> maps to underlying kernel launch APIs. This is so that users targeting PTX will be able to enact a launch, and so that the compiler front-end can translate <<<>>> into these calls.

Table 15: New Device-only Launch Implementation Functions

<table><tr><td>Runtime API Launch Functions</td><td>Description of Difference From Host Runtime Behaviour (behavior is identical if no description)</td></tr><tr><td>cudaGetParameter-Buffer</td><td>Generated automatically from &lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;&gt;. Note different API to host equivalent.</td></tr><tr><td>cudaLaunchDevice</td><td>Generated automatically from &lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;&gt;. Note different API to host equivalent.</td></tr></table>

The APIs for these launch functions are diferent to those of the CUDA Runtime API, and are defined as follows:

```txt
extern    device    cudaError_t cudaGetParameterBuffer(void **params);
extern __device__  cudaError_t cudaLaunchDevice(void *kernel,
                               void *params, dim3 gridDim,
                               dim3 blockDim,
                               unsigned int sharedMemSize = 0,
                               cudaStream_t stream = 0);
```

## 13.6.2.1.8 API Reference (CDP1)

See API Reference, above, for CDP2 version of document.

The portions of the CUDA Runtime API supported in the device runtime are detailed here. Host and device runtime APIs have identical syntax; semantics are the same except where indicated. The table below provides an overview of the API relative to the version available from the host.

Table 16: Supported API Functions

<table><tr><td>Runtime API Functions</td><td>Details</td></tr><tr><td>cudaDeviceSynchronize</td><td>Synchronizes on work launched from thread&#x27;s own block only.Warning: Note that calling this API from device code is deprecated in CUDA 11.6, removed for compute_90+ compilation, and is slated for full removal in a future CUDA release.</td></tr><tr><td>cudaDeviceGetCacheConfig</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>cudaDeviceGetLimit</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>cudaGetLastError</td><td>Last error is per-thread state, not per-block state</td></tr><tr><td>cudaPeekAtLastError</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>cudaGetErrorString</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>cudaGetDeviceCount</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>cudaDeviceGetAttribute</td><td>Will return attributes for any device</td></tr><tr><td>cudaGetDevice</td><td>Always returns current device ID as would be seen from host</td></tr><tr><td>cudaStreamCreateWithFlags</td><td>Must pass cudaStreamNonBlocking flag</td></tr><tr><td>cudaStreamDestroy</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>cudaStreamWaitEvent</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>cudaEventCreateWithFlags</td><td>Must pass cudaEventDisableTiming flag</td></tr><tr><td>cudaEventRecord</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>cudaEventDestroy</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>cudaFuncGetAttributes</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>cudaMemcpyAsync</td><td rowspan="4">Notes about all memcpy/memset functions:► Only async memcpy/set functions are supported► Only device-to-device memcpy is permitted► May not pass in local or shared memory pointers</td></tr><tr><td>cudaMemcpy2DAsync</td></tr><tr><td>cudaMemcpy3DAsync</td></tr><tr><td>cudaMemsetAsync</td></tr><tr><td>cudaMemset2DAsync</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>cudaMemset3DAsync</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>cudaRuntimeGetVersion</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>cudaMalloc</td><td rowspan="2">May not call cudaFree on the device on a pointer created on the host, and vice-versa</td></tr><tr><td>cudaFree</td></tr><tr><td>cudaOccupancyMaxActiveBlocksPerMulti-processor</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>cudaOccupancyMaxPotentialBlockSize</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>cudaOccupancyMaxPotentialBlockSize-VariableSMem</td><td></td></tr></table>

13.6. Legacy CUDA Dynamic Parallelism (CDP1)

## 13.6.2.2 Device-side Launch from PTX (CDP1)

See Device-side Launch from PTX, above, for CDP2 version of document.

This section is for the programming language and compiler implementers who target Parallel Thread Execution (PTX) and plan to support Dynamic Parallelism in their language. It provides the low-level details related to supporting kernel launches at the PTX level.

## 13.6.2.2.1 Kernel Launch APIs (CDP1)

See Kernel Launch APIs, above, for CDP2 version of document.

Device-side kernel launches can be implemented using the following two APIs accessible from PTX: cudaLaunchDevice() and cudaGetParameterBuffer(). cudaLaunchDevice() launches the specified kernel with the parameter bufer that is obtained by calling cudaGetParameterBuffer() and filled with the parameters to the launched kernel. The parameter bufer can be NULL, i.e., no need to invoke cudaGetParameterBuffer(), if the launched kernel does not take any parameters.

## 13.6.2.2.1.1 cudaLaunchDevice (CDP1)

See cudaLaunchDevice, above, for CDP2 version of document.

At the PTX level, cudaLaunchDevice()needs to be declared in one of the two forms shown below before it is used.

```txt
// PTX-level Declaration of cudaLaunchDevice() when .address_size is 64
 extern .func(.param .b32 func_retval0) cudaLaunchDevice
(
  .param .b64 func,
  .param .b64 parameterBuffer,
  .param .align 4 .b8 gridDimension[12],
  .param .align 4 .b8 blockDimension[12],
  .param .b32 sharedMemSize,
  .param .b64 stream
)
;
```

```txt
// PTX-level Declaration of cudaLaunchDevice() when .address_size is 32
.extern .func(.param .b32 func_retval0) cudaLaunchDevice
(
    .param .b32 func,
    .param .b32 parameterBuffer,
    .param .align 4 .b8 gridDimension[12],
    .param .align 4 .b8 blockDimension[12],
    .param .b32 sharedMemSize,
    .param .b32 stream
)
;
```

The CUDA-level declaration below is mapped to one of the aforementioned PTX-level declarations and is found in the system header file cuda\_device\_runtime\_api.h. The function is defined in the cudadevrt system library, which must be linked with a program in order to use device-side kernel launch functionality.

```c
// CUDA-level declaration of cudaLaunchDevice()
extern "C" __device__
cudaError_t cudaLaunchDevice(void *func, void *parameterBuffer,
                       dim3 gridDimension, dim3 blockDimension,
                       unsigned int sharedMemSize,
                       cudaStream_t stream);
```

The first parameter is a pointer to the kernel to be is launched, and the second parameter is the parameter bufer that holds the actual parameters to the launched kernel. The layout of the parameter bufer is explained in Parameter Bufer Layout (CDP1), below. Other parameters specify the launch configuration, i.e., as grid dimension, block dimension, shared memory size, and the stream associated with the launch (please refer to Execution Configuration for the detailed description of launch configuration.

## 13.6.2.2.1.2 cudaGetParameterBufer (CDP1)

See cudaGetParameterBufer, above, for CDP2 version of document.

cudaGetParameterBuffer() needs to be declared at the PTX level before it’s used. The PTX-level declaration must be in one of the two forms given below, depending on address size:

```txt
// PTX-level Declaration of cudaGetParameterBuffer() when .address_size is 64
// When .address_size is 64
.extern .func(.param .b64 func_retval0) cudaGetParameterBuffer
(
    .param .b64 alignment,
    .param .b64 size
)
;

// PTX-level Declaration of cudaGetParameterBuffer() when .address_size is 32
.extern .func(.param .b32 func_retval0) cudaGetParameterBuffer
(
    .param .b32 alignment,
    .param .b32 size
)
;
```

The following CUDA-level declaration of cudaGetParameterBuffer() is mapped to the aforementioned PTX-level declaration:

```c
// CUDA-level Declaration of cudaGetParameterBuffer()
extern "C" __device__
void *cudaGetParameterBuffer(size_t alignment, size_t size);
```

The first parameter specifies the alignment requirement of the parameter bufer and the second parameter the size requirement in bytes. In the current implementation, the parameter bufer returned by cudaGetParameterBuffer() is always guaranteed to be 64- byte aligned, and the alignment requirement parameter is ignored. However, it is recommended to pass the correct alignment requirement value - which is the largest alignment of any parameter to be placed in the parameter bufer - to cudaGetParameterBuffer() to ensure portability in the future

## 13.6.2.2.2 Parameter Bufer Layout (CDP1)

See Parameter Bufer Layout, above, for CDP2 version of document.

Parameter reordering in the parameter bufer is prohibited, and each individual parameter placed in the parameter bufer is required to be aligned. That is, each parameter must be placed at the n<sup>th</sup> byte in the parameter bufer, where n is the smallest multiple of the parameter size that is greater than the ofset of the last byte taken by the preceding parameter. The maximum size of the parameter bufer is 4KB.

For a more detailed description of PTX code generated by the CUDA compiler, please refer to the PTX-3.5 specification.

## 13.6.2.3 Toolkit Support for Dynamic Parallelism (CDP1)

See Toolkit Support for Dynamic Parallelism, above, for CDP2 version of document.

## 13.6.2.3.1 Including Device Runtime API in CUDA Code (CDP1)

See Including Device Runtime API in CUDA Code, above, for CDP2 version of document.

Similar to the host-side runtime API, prototypes for the CUDA device runtime API are included automatically during program compilation. There is no need to include cuda\_device\_runtime\_api.h explicitly.

## 13.6.2.3.2 Compiling and Linking (CDP1)

See Compiling and Linking, above, for CDP2 version of document.

When compiling and linking CUDA programs using dynamic parallelism with nvcc, the program will automatically link against the static device runtime library libcudadevrt.

The device runtime is ofered as a static library (cudadevrt.lib on Windows, libcudadevrt.a under Linux), against which a GPU application that uses the device runtime must be linked. Linking of device libraries can be accomplished through nvcc and/or nvlink. Two simple examples are shown below.

A device runtime program may be compiled and linked in a single step, if all required source files can be specified from the command line:

```shell
$ nvcc -arch=sm_75 -rdc=true hello_world.cu -o hello -lcudadevrt
```

It is also possible to compile CUDA .cu source files first to object files, and then link these together in a two-stage process:

```shell
$ nvcc -arch=sm_75 -dc hello_world.cu -o hello_world.o
$ nvcc -arch=sm_75 -rdc=true hello_world.o -o hello -lcudadevrt
```

Please see the Using Separate Compilation section of The CUDA Driver Compiler NVCC guide for more details.

## 13.6.3. Programming Guidelines (CDP1)

See Programming Guidelines, above, for CDP2 version of document.

## 13.6.3.1 Basics (CDP1)

See Basics, above, for CDP2 version of document.

The device runtime is a functional subset of the host runtime. API level device management, kernel launching, device memcpy, stream management, and event management are exposed from the device runtime.

Programming for the device runtime should be familiar to someone who already has experience with CUDA. Device runtime syntax and semantics are largely the same as that of the host API, with any exceptions detailed earlier in this document.

Warning: Explicit synchronization with child kernels from a parent block (i.e. using cudaDeviceSynchronize() in device code) is deprecated in CUDA 11.6, removed for compute\_90+ compilation, and is slated for full removal in a future CUDA release.

The following example shows a simple Hello World program incorporating dynamic parallelism:

```cpp
#include <stdio.h>

__global__ void childKernel()
{
    printf("Hello ");
}

__global__ void parentKernel()
{
    // launch child
    childKernel<<<1,1>>>();
    if (cudaSuccess != cudaGetLastError()) {
        return;
    }

    // wait for child to complete
    if (cudaSuccess != cudaDeviceSynchronize()) {
        return;
    }

    printf("World!\n");
}

int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    // launch parent
    parentKernel<<<1,1>>>();
    if (cudaSuccess != cudaGetLastError()) {
        return 1;
    }

    // wait for parent to complete
```

(continues on next page)

```txt
if (cudaSuccess != cudaDeviceSynchronize()) {
    return 2;
}

return 0;
}
```

This program may be built in a single step from the command line as follows:

```shell
$ nvcc -arch=sm_75 -rdc=true hello_world.cu -o hello -lcudadevrt
```

## 13.6.3.2 Performance (CDP1)

See Performance, above, for CDP2 version of document.

## 13.6.3.2.1 Synchronization (CDP1)

See CUDA Dynamic Parallelism, above, for CDP2 version of document.

Warning: Explicit synchronization with child kernels from a parent block (such as using cudaDeviceSynchronize() in device code) is deprecated in CUDA 11.6, removed for compute\_90+ compilation, and is slated for full removal in a future CUDA release.

Synchronization by one thread may impact the performance of other threads in the same Thread Block, even when those other threads do not call cudaDeviceSynchronize() themselves. This impact will depend upon the underlying implementation. In general the implicit synchronization of child kernels done when a thread block ends is more eficient compared to calling cudaDeviceSynchronize() explicitly. It is therefore recommended to only call cudaDeviceSynchronize() if it is needed to synchronize with a child kernel before a thread block ends.

## 13.6.3.2.2 Dynamic-parallelism-enabled Kernel Overhead (CDP1)

## See Dynamic-parallelism-enabled Kernel Overhead, above, for CDP2 version of document.

System software which is active when controlling dynamic launches may impose an overhead on any kernel which is running at the time, whether or not it invokes kernel launches of its own. This overhead arises from the device runtime’s execution tracking and management software and may result in decreased performance for example, library calls when made from the device compared to from the host side. This overhead is, in general, incurred for applications that link against the device runtime library.

## 13.6.3.3 Implementation Restrictions and Limitations (CDP1)

See Implementation Restrictions and Limitations, above, for CDP2 version of document.

Dynamic Parallelism guarantees all semantics described in this document, however, certain hardware and software resources are implementation-dependent and limit the scale, performance and other properties of a program which uses the device runtime.

## 13.6.3.3.1 Runtime (CDP1)

See Runtime, above, for CDP2 version of document.

## 13.6.3.3.1.1 Memory Footprint (CDP1)

See Memory Footprint, above, for CDP2 version of document.

The device runtime system software reserves memory for various management purposes, in particular one reservation which is used for saving parent-grid state during synchronization, and a second reservation for tracking pending grid launches. Configuration controls are available to reduce the size of these reservations in exchange for certain launch limitations. See Configuration Options (CDP1), below, for details.

The majority of reserved memory is allocated as backing-store for parent kernel state, for use when synchronizing on a child launch. Conservatively, this memory must support storing of state for the maximum number of live threads possible on the device. This means that each parent generation at which cudaDeviceSynchronize() is callable may require up to 860MB of device memory, depending on the device configuration, which will be unavailable for program use even if it is not all consumed.

## 13.6.3.3.1.2 Nesting and Synchronization Depth (CDP1)

See CUDA Dynamic Parallelism, above, for CDP2 version of document.

Using the device runtime, one kernel may launch another kernel, and that kernel may launch another, and so on. Each subordinate launch is considered a new nesting level, and the total number of levels is the nesting depth of the program. The synchronization depth is defined as the deepest level at which the program will explicitly synchronize on a child launch. Typically this is one less than the nesting depth of the program, but if the program does not need to call cudaDeviceSynchronize() at all levels then the synchronization depth might be substantially diferent to the nesting depth.

Warning: Explicit synchronization with child kernels from a parent block (i.e. using cudaDeviceSynchronize() in device code) is deprecated in CUDA 11.6, removed for compute\_90+ com pilation, and is slated for full removal in a future CUDA release.

The overall maximum nesting depth is limited to 24, but practically speaking the real limit will be the amount of memory required by the system for each new level (see Memory Footprint (CDP1) above). Any launch which would result in a kernel at a deeper level than the maximum will fail. Note that this may also apply to cudaMemcpyAsync(), which might itself generate a kernel launch. See Configuration Options (CDP1) for details.

By default, suficient storage is reserved for two levels of synchronization. This maximum synchronization depth (and hence reserved storage) may be controlled by calling cudaDeviceSetLimit()

and specifying cudaLimitDevRuntimeSyncDepth. The number of levels to be supported must be configured before the top-level kernel is launched from the host, in order to guarantee successful execution of a nested program. Calling cudaDeviceSynchronize() at a depth greater than the specified maximum synchronization depth will return an error.

An optimization is permitted where the system detects that it need not reserve space for the parent’s state in cases where the parent kernel never calls cudaDeviceSynchronize(). In this case, because explicit parent/child synchronization never occurs, the memory footprint required for a program will be much less than the conservative maximum. Such a program could specify a shallower maximum synchronization depth to avoid over-allocation of backing store.

## 13.6.3.3.1.3 Pending Kernel Launches (CDP1)

See Pending Kernel Launches, above, for CDP2 version of document.

When a kernel is launched, all associated configuration and parameter data is tracked until the kernel completes. This data is stored within a system-managed launch pool.

The launch pool is divided into a fixed-size pool and a virtualized pool with lower performance. The device runtime system software will try to track launch data in the fixed-size pool first. The virtualized pool will be used to track new launches when the fixed-size pool is full.

The size of the fixed-size launch pool is configurable by calling cudaDeviceSetLimit() from the host and specifying cudaLimitDevRuntimePendingLaunchCount.

## 13.6.3.3.1.4 Configuration Options (CDP1)

See Configuration Options, above, for CDP2 version of document.

Resource allocation for the device runtime system software is controlled via the cudaDevice-SetLimit() API from the host program. Limits must be set before any kernel is launched, and may not be changed while the GPU is actively running programs.

Warning: Explicit synchronization with child kernels from a parent block (i.e. using cudaDeviceSynchronize() in device code) is deprecated in CUDA 11.6, removed for compute\_90+ compilation, and is slated for full removal in a future CUDA release.

The following named limits may be set:

<table><tr><td>Limit</td><td>Behavior</td></tr><tr><td>cudaLimitDevRun-timeSyncDepth</td><td>Sets the maximum depth at which cudaDeviceSynchronize() may be called. Launches may be performed deeper than this, but explicit synchronization deeper than this limit will return the cudaErrorLaunchMaxDepthExceeded. The default maximum sync depth is 2.</td></tr><tr><td>cudaLimitDevRuntimePendingLaunchCount</td><td>Controls the amount of memory set aside for buffering kernel launches which have not yet begun to execute, due either to unresolved dependencies or lack of execution resources. When the buffer is full, the device runtime system software will attempt to track new pending launches in a lower performance virtualized buffer. If the virtualized buffer is also full, i.e. when all available heap space is consumed, launches will not occur, and the thread&#x27;s last error will be set to cudaErrorLaunchPendingCountExceeded. The default pending launch count is 2048 launches.</td></tr><tr><td>cudaLimitStackSize</td><td>Controls the stack size in bytes of each GPU thread. The CUDA driver automatically increases the per-thread stack size for each kernel launch as needed. This size isn&#x27;t reset back to the original value after each launch. To set the per-thread stack size to a different value, cudaDeviceSetLimit() can be called to set this limit. The stack will be immediately resized, and if necessary, the device will block until all preceding requested tasks are complete. cudaDeviceGetLimit() can be called to get the current per-thread stack size.</td></tr></table>

## 13.6.3.3.1.5 Memory Allocation and Lifetime (CDP1)

See Memory Allocation and Lifetime, above, for CDP2 version of document.

cudaMalloc() and cudaFree() have distinct semantics between the host and device environments. When invoked from the host, cudaMalloc() allocates a new region from unused device memory. When invoked from the device runtime these functions map to device-side malloc() and free(). This implies that within the device environment the total allocatable memory is limited to the device malloc() heap size, which may be smaller than the available unused device memory. Also, it is an error to invoke cudaFree() from the host program on a pointer which was allocated by cudaMalloc() on the device or vice-versa.

<table><tr><td></td><td>cudaMalloc() on Host</td><td>cudaMalloc() on Device</td></tr><tr><td>cudaFree() on Host</td><td>Supported</td><td>Not Supported</td></tr><tr><td>cudaFree() on Device</td><td>Not Supported</td><td>Supported</td></tr><tr><td>Allocation limit</td><td>Free device memory</td><td>cudaLimitMallocHeapSize</td></tr></table>

## 13.6.3.3.1.6 SM Id and Warp Id (CDP1)

See SM Id and Warp Id, above, for CDP2 version of document.

Note that in PTX %smid and %warpid are defined as volatile values. The device runtime may reschedule thread blocks onto diferent SMs in order to more eficiently manage resources. As such, it is unsafe to rely upon %smid or %warpid remaining unchanged across the lifetime of a thread or thread block.

## 13.6.3.3.1.7 ECC Errors (CDP1)

See ECC Errors, above, for CDP2 version of document.

No notification of ECC errors is available to code within a CUDA kernel. ECC errors are reported at the host side once the entire launch tree has completed. Any ECC errors which arise during execution of a nested program will either generate an exception or continue execution (depending upon error and configuration).

# Chapter 14. Virtual Memory Management

Warning: This document has been replaced by a new CUDA Programming Guide. The information in this document should be considered legacy, and this document is no longer being updated as of CUDA 13.0. Please refer to the CUDA Programming Guide for up-to-date information on CUDA.

## 14.1. Introduction

The Virtual Memory Management APIs provide a way for the application to directly manage the unified virtual address space that CUDA provides to map physical memory to virtual addresses accessible by the GPU. Introduced in CUDA 10.2, these APIs additionally provide a new way to interop with other processes and graphics APIs like OpenGL and Vulkan, as well as provide newer memory attributes that a user can tune to fit their applications.

Historically, memory allocation calls (such as cudaMalloc()) in the CUDA programming model have returned a memory address that points to the GPU memory. The address thus obtained could be used with any CUDA API or inside a device kernel. However, the memory allocated could not be resized depending on the user’s memory needs. In order to increase an allocation’s size, the user had to explicitly allocate a larger bufer, copy data from the initial allocation, free it and then continue to keep track of the newer allocation’s address. This often leads to lower performance and higher peak memory utilization for applications. Essentially, users had a malloc-like interface for allocating GPU memory, but did not have a corresponding realloc to complement it. The Virtual Memory Management APIs decouple the idea of an address and memory and allow the application to handle them separately. The APIs allow applications to map and unmap memory from a virtual address range as they see fit.

In the case of enabling peer device access to memory allocations by using cudaEnablePeerAccess, all past and future user allocations are mapped to the target peer device. This lead to users unwittingly paying runtime cost of mapping all cudaMalloc allocations to peer devices. However, in most situations applications communicate by sharing only a few allocations with another device and not all allocations are required to be mapped to all the devices. With Virtual Memory Management, applications can specifically choose certain allocations to be accessible from target devices.

The CUDA Virtual Memory Management APIs expose fine grained control to the user for managing the GPU memory in applications. It provides APIs that let users:

▶ Place memory allocated on diferent devices into a contiguous VA range.

▶ Perform interprocess communication for memory sharing using platform-specific mechanisms.

▶ Opt into newer memory types on the devices that support them.

In order to allocate memory, the Virtual Memory Management programming model exposes the following functionality:

▶ Allocating physical memory.

▶ Reserving a VA range.

▶ Mapping allocated memory to the VA range.

▶ Controlling access rights on the mapped range.

Note that the suite of APIs described in this section require a system that supports UVA.

## 14.2. Query for Support

Before attempting to use Virtual Memory Management APIs, applications must ensure that the devices they want to use support CUDA Virtual Memory Management. The following code sample shows querying for Virtual Memory Management support:

```c
int deviceSupportsVmm;
CUresult result = cuDeviceGetAttribute(&deviceSupportsVmm, CU_DEVICE_ATTRIBUTE_
    VIRTUAL_MEMORY_MANAGEMENT_SUPPORTED, device);
if (deviceSupportsVmm != 0) {
    // `device` supports Virtual Memory Management
}
```

## 14.3. Allocating Physical Memory

The first step in memory allocation using Virtual Memory Management APIs is to create a physical memory chunk that will provide a backing for the allocation. In order to allocate physical memory, applications must use the cuMemCreate API. The allocation created by this function does not have any device or host mappings. The function argument CUmemGenericAllocationHandle describes the properties of the memory to allocate such as the location of the allocation, if the allocation is going to be shared to another process (or other Graphics APIs), or the physical attributes of the memory to be allocated. Users must ensure the requested allocation’s size must be aligned to appropriate granularity. Information regarding an allocation’s granularity requirements can be queried using cuMemGetAllocationGranularity. The following code snippet shows allocating physical memory with cuMemCreate:

```txt
CUmemGenericAllocationHandle allocatePhysicalMemory(int device, size_t size) {
    CUmemAllocationProp prop = {};
    prop.type = CU_MEM_ALLOCATION_TYPE_PINNED;
    prop.location.type = CU_MEM_LOCATION_TYPE_DEVICE;
    prop.location.id = device;

    size_t granularity = 0;
    cuMemGetAllocationGranularity(&granularity, &prop, CU_MEM_ALLOC_GRANULARITY_MINIMUM);

    // Ensure size matches granularity requirements for the allocation
    size_t padded_size = ROUND_UP(size, granularity);
```

(continues on next page)

```txt
// Allocate physical memory
CUmemGenericAllocationHandle allocHandle;
cuMemCreate(&allocHandle, padded_size, &prop, 0);

return allocHandle;
}
```

The memory allocated by cuMemCreate is referenced by the CUmemGenericAllocationHandle it returns. This is a departure from the cudaMalloc-style of allocation, which returns a pointer to the GPU memory, which was directly accessible by CUDA kernel executing on the device. The memory allocated cannot be used for any operations other than querying properties using cuMemGetAllocationPropertiesFromHandle. In order to make this memory accessible, applications must map this memory into a VA range reserved by cuMemAddressReserve and provide suitable access rights to it. Applications must free the allocated memory using the cuMemRelease API.

## 14.3.1. Shareable Memory Allocations

With cuMemCreate users now have the facility to indicate to CUDA, at allocation time, that they have earmarked a particular allocation for Inter process communication and graphics interop purposes. Applications can do this by setting CUmemAllocationProp::requestedHandleTypes to a platform-specific field. On Windows, when CUmemAllocationProp::requestedHandleTypes is set to CU\_MEM\_HANDLE\_TYPE\_WIN32 applications must also specify an LPSECURITYATTRIBUTES attribute in CUmemAllocationProp::win32HandleMetaData. This security attribute defines the scope of which exported allocations may be transferred to other processes.

The CUDA Virtual Memory Management API functions do not support the legacy interprocess communication functions with their memory. Instead, they expose a new mechanism for interprocess communication that uses OS-specific handles. Applications can obtain these OS-specific handles corresponding to the allocations by using cuMemExportToShareableHandle. The handles thus obtained can be transferred by using the usual OS native mechanisms for inter process communication. The recipient process should import the allocation by using cuMemImportFromShareableHandle.

Users must ensure they query for support of the requested handle type before attempting to export memory allocated with cuMemCreate. The following code snippet illustrates query for handle type support in a platform-specific way.

```cpp
int deviceSupportsIpcHandle;
#if defined(__linux__)
    cuDeviceGetAttribute(&deviceSupportsIpcHandle, CU_DEVICE_ATTRIBUTE_HANDLE_TYPE_POSIX_FILE_DESCRIPTOR_SUPPORTED, device));
#else
    cuDeviceGetAttribute(&deviceSupportsIpcHandle, CU_DEVICE_ATTRIBUTE_HANDLE_TYPE_WIN32_HANDLE_SUPPORTED, device));
#endif
```

Users should set the CUmemAllocationProp::requestedHandleTypes appropriately as shown below:

```txt
#if defined(__linux__)
    prop.requiredHandleTypes = CU_MEM_HANDLE_TYPE_POSIX_FILE_DESCRIPTOR;
#else
    prop.requiredHandleTypes = CU_MEM_HANDLE_TYPE_WIN32;
```

(continues on next page)

```cpp
(continued from previous page)
    prop.win32HandleMetaData = // Windows specific LPSECURITYATTRIBUTES attribute.
#endif
```

The memMapIpcDrv sample can be used as an example for using IPC with Virtual Memory Management allocations.
