## 14.3.2. Memory Type

Before CUDA 10.2, applications had no user-controlled way of allocating any special type of memory that certain devices may support. With cuMemCreate, applications can additionally specify memory type requirements using the CUmemAllocationProp::allocFlags to opt into any specific memory features. Applications must also ensure that the requested memory type is supported on the device of allocation.

## 14.3.2.1 Compressible Memory

Compressible memory can be used to accelerate accesses to data with unstructured sparsity and other compressible data patterns. Compression can save DRAM bandwidth, L2 read bandwidth and L2 capacity depending on the data being operated on. Applications that want to allocate compressible memory on devices that support Compute Data Compression can do so by setting CUmemAllocationProp::allocFlags::compressionType to CU\_MEM\_ALLOCATION\_COMP\_GENERIC. Users must query if device supports Compute Data Compression by using CU\_DEVICE\_ATTRIBUTE\_GENERIC\_COMPRESSION\_SUPPORTED. The following code snippet illustrates querying compressible memory support cuDeviceGetAttribute.

```txt
int compressionSupported = 0;
cuDeviceGetAttribute(&compressionSupported, CU_DEVICE_ATTRIBUTE_GENERIC_COMPRESSION_
→SUPPORTED, device);
```

On devices that support Compute Data Compression, users must opt in at allocation time as shown below:

```javascript
prop.allocFlags.compressionType = CU_MEM_ALLOCATION_COMP_GENERIC;
```

Due to various reasons such as limited HW resources, the allocation may not have compression attributes, the user is expected to query back the properties of the allocated memory using cuMemGetAllocationPropertiesFromHandle and check for compression attribute.

```javascript
CUmemAllocationProp allocationProp = {};
cuMemGetAllocationPropertiesFromHandle(&allocationProp, allocationHandle);

if (allocationProp.allocFlags.compressionType == CU_MEM_ALLOCATION_COMP_GENERIC)
{
    // Obtained compressible memory allocation
}
```

## 14.4. Reserving a Virtual Address Range

Since with Virtual Memory Management the notions of address and memory are distinct, applications must carve out an address range that can hold the memory allocations made by cuMemCreate. The address range reserved must be at least as large as the sum of the sizes of all the physical memory allocations the user plans to place in them.

Applications can reserve a virtual address range by passing appropriate parameters to cuMemAddressReserve. The address range obtained will not have any device or host physical memory associated with it. The reserved virtual address range can be mapped to memory chunks belonging to any device in the system, thus providing the application a continuous VA range backed and mapped by memory belonging to diferent devices. Applications are expected to return the virtual address range back to CUDA using cuMemAddressFree. Users must ensure that the entire VA range is unmapped before calling cuMemAddressFree. These functions are conceptually similar to mmap/munmap (on Linux) or VirtualAlloc/VirtualFree (on Windows) functions. The following code snippet illustrates the usage for the function:

```txt
CUdeviceptr ptr;
// `ptr` holds the returned start of virtual address range reserved.
CUresult result = cuMemAddressReserve(&ptr, size, 0, 0, 0); // alignment = 0 for
    default alignment
```

## 14.5. Virtual Aliasing Support

The Virtual Memory Management APIs provide a way to create multiple virtual memory mappings or “proxies” to the same allocation using multiple calls to cuMemMap with diferent virtual addresses, socalled virtual aliasing. Unless otherwise noted in the PTX ISA, writes to one proxy of the allocation are considered inconsistent and incoherent with any other proxy of the same memory until the writing device operation (grid launch, memcpy, memset, and so on) completes. Grids present on the GPU prior to a writing device operation but reading after the writing device operation completes are also considered to have inconsistent and incoherent proxies.

For example, the following snippet is considered undefined, assuming device pointers A and B are virtual aliases of the same memory allocation:

```txt
__global__ void foo(char *A, char *B) {
  *A = 0x1;
  printf("%d\n", *B);    // Undefined behavior!  *B can take on either
// the previous value or some value in-between.
}
```

The following is defined behavior, assuming these two kernels are ordered monotonically (by streams or events).

```txt
__global__ void foo1(char *A) {
    *A = 0x1;
}

__global__ void foo2(char *B) {
    printf("%d\n", *B);      // *B == *A == 0x1 assuming foo2 waits for foo1
// to complete before launching
```

(continues on next page)

(continued from previous page)

```txt
}
cudaMemcpyAsync(B, input, size, stream1);    // Aliases are allowed at
// operation boundaries
foo1<<<1,1,0,stream1>>>(A);                  // allowing foo1 to access A.
cudaEventRecord(event, stream1);
cudaStreamWaitEvent(stream2, event);
foo2<<<1,1,0,stream2>>>(B);
cudaStreamWaitEvent(stream3, event);
cudaMemcpyAsync(output, B, size, stream3);   // Both launches of foo2 and
                                // cudaMemcpy (which both
                                // read) wait for foo1 (which writes)
                                // to complete before proceeding
```

If accessing same allocation through diferent “proxies” is required in the same kernel a fence.proxy. alias can be used between the two accesses. The above example can thus be made legal with inline PTX assembly:

```lisp
__global__ void foo(char *A, char *B) {
    *A = 0x1;
    asm volatile ("fence.proxy.alias;" ::: "memory");
    printf("%d\n", *B);      // *B == *A == 0x1
}
```

## 14.6. Mapping Memory

The allocated physical memory and the carved out virtual address space from the previous two sections represent the memory and address distinction introduced by the Virtual Memory Management APIs. For the allocated memory to be useable, the user must first place the memory in the address space. The address range obtained from cuMemAddressReserve and the physical allocation obtained from cuMemCreate or cuMemImportFromShareableHandle must be associated with each other by using cuMemMap.

Users can associate allocations from multiple devices to reside in contiguous virtual address ranges as long as they have carved out enough address space. In order to decouple the physical allocation and the address range, users must unmap the address of the mapping by using cuMemUnmap. Users can map and unmap memory to the same address range as many times as they want, as long as they ensure that they don’t attempt to create mappings on VA range reservations that are already mapped. The following code snippet illustrates the usage for the function:

```javascript
CUdeviceptr ptr;
// `ptr`: address in the address range previously reserved by cuMemAddressReserve.
// `allocHandle`: CUmemGenericAllocationHandle obtained by a previous call to
    →cuMemCreate.
CUresult result = cuMemMap(ptr, size, 0, allocHandle, 0);
```

## 14.7. Controlling Access Rights

The Virtual Memory Management APIs enable applications to explicitly protect their VA ranges with access control mechanisms. Mapping the allocation to a region of the address range using cuMemMap does not make the address accessible, and would result in a program crash if accessed by a CUDA kernel. Users must specifically select access control using the cuMemSetAccess function, which allows or restricts access for specific devices to a mapped address range. The following code snippet illustrates the usage for the function:

```txt
void setAccessOnDevice(int device, CUdeviceptr ptr, size_t size) {
    CUmemAccessDesc accessDesc = {};
    accessDesc.location.type = CU_MEM_LOCATION_TYPE_DEVICE;
    accessDesc.location.id = device;
    accessDesc.flags = CU_MEM_ACCESS_FLAGS_PROT_READWRITE;

    // Make the address accessible
    cuMemSetAccess(ptr, size, &accessDesc, 1);
}
```

The access control mechanism exposed with Virtual Memory Management allows users to be explicit about which allocations they want to share with other peer devices on the system. As specified earlier, cudaEnablePeerAccess forces all prior and future cudaMalloc’d allocations to be mapped to the target peer device. This can be convenient in many cases as user doesn’t have to worry about tracking the mapping state of every allocation to every device in the system. But for users concerned with performance of their applications this approach has performance implications. With access control at allocation granularity Virtual Memory Management exposes a mechanism to have peer mappings with minimal overhead.

The vectorAddMMAP sample can be used as an example for using the Virtual Memory Management APIs.

## 14.8. Fabric Memory

CUDA 12.4 introduced a new VMM allocation handle type CU\_MEM\_HANDLE\_TYPE\_FABRIC. On supported platforms and provided the NVIDIA IMEX daemon is running this allocation handle type enables sharing allocations not only intra node with any communication mechanism, e.g. MPI, but also inter node. This allows GPUs in a Multi Node NVLINK System to map the memory of all other GPUs part of the same NVLINK fabric even if they are in diferent nodes greatly increasing the scale of multi-GPU Programming with NVLINK.

## 14.8.1. Query for Support

Before attempting to use Fabric Memory, applications must ensure that the devices they want to use support Fabric Memory. The following code sample shows querying for Fabric Memory support:

```txt
int deviceSupportsFabricMem;
CUresult result = cuDeviceGetAttribute(&deviceSupportsFabricMem, CU_DEVICE_ATTRIBUTE_HANDLE_TYPE_FABRIC_SUPPORTED, device);
if (deviceSupportsFabricMem != 0) {
```

(continues on next page)

(continued from previous page)

```txt
// `device` supports Fabric Memory
}
```

Aside from using CU\_MEM\_HANDLE\_TYPE\_FABRIC as handle type and not requiring OS native mechanisms for inter process communication to exchange sharable handles there is no diference in using Fabric Memory compared to other allocation handle types.

## 14.9. Multicast Support

The Multicast Object Management APIs provide a way for the application to create Multicast Objects and in combination with the Virtual Memory Management APIs described above allow applications to leverage NVLINK SHARP on supported NVLINK connected GPUs if they are connected with NVSWITCH. NVLINK SHARP allows CUDA applications to leverage in fabric computing to accelerate operations like broadcast and reductions between GPUs connected with NVSWITCH. For this to work multiple NVLINK connected GPUs form a Multicast Team and each GPU from the team backs up a Multicast Object with physical memory. So a Multicast Team of N GPUs has N physical replicas, each local to one participating GPU, of a Multicast Object. The multimem PTX instructions using mappings of Multicast Objects work with all replicas of the Multicast Object.

To work with Multicast Objects an application needs to

▶ Query Multicast Support

Create a Multicast Handle with cuMulticastCreate.

Share the Multicast Handle with all processes that control a GPU which should participate in a Multicast Team. This works with cuMemExportToShareableHandle as described above.

▶ Add all GPUs that should participate in the Multicast Team with cuMulticastAddDevice.

For each participating GPU bind physical memory allocated with cuMemCreate as described above to the Multicast Handle. All devices need to be added to the Multicast Team before binding memory on any device.

▶ Reserve an address range, map the Multicast Handle and set Access Rights as described above for regular Unicast mappings. Unicast and Multicast mappings to the same physical memory are possible. See the Virtual Aliasing Support section above how to ensure consistency between multiple mappings to the same physical memory.

▶ Use the multimem PTX instructions with the multicast mappings.

The multi\_node\_p2p example in the Multi GPU Programming Models GitHub repository contains a complete example using Fabric Memory including Multicast Objects to leverage NVLINK SHARP. Please note that this example is for developers of libraries like NCCL or NVSHMEM. It shows how higher-level programming models like NVSHMEM work internally within a (multinode) NVLINK domain. Application developers generally should use the higher-level MPI, NCCL, or NVSHMEM interfaces instead of this API.

## 14.9.1. Query for Support

Before attempting to use Multicast Objects, applications must ensure that the devices they want to use support them. The following code sample shows querying for Fabric Memory support:

```javascript
int deviceSupportsMultiCast;
CUresult result = cuDeviceGetAttribute(&deviceSupportsMultiCast, CU_DEVICE_ATTRIBUTE_MULTICAST_SUPPORTED, device);
if (deviceSupportsMultiCast != 0) {
    // `device` supports Multicast Objects
}
```

## 14.9.2. Allocating Multicast Objects

Multicast Objects can be created with cuMulticastCreate:

```cpp
CUmemGenericAllocationHandle createMCHandle(int numDevices, size_t size) {
    CUmemAllocationProp mcProp = {};
    mcProp.numDevices = numDevices;
    mcProp.handleTypes = CU_MEM_HANDLE_TYPE_FABRIC; // or on single node CU_MEM_HANDLE_TYPE_POSIX_FILE_DESCRIPTOR

    size_t granularity = 0;
    cuMulticastGetGranularity(&granularity, &mcProp, CU_MEM_ALLOC_GRANULARITY_MINIMUM);

    // Ensure size matches granularity requirements for the allocation
    size_t padded_size = ROUND_UP(size, granularity);

    mcProp.size = padded_size;

    // Create Multicast Object this has no devices and no physical memory associated yet
    CUmemGenericAllocationHandle mcHandle;
    cuMulticastCreate(&mcHandle, &mcProp);

    return mcHandle;
}
```

## 14.9.3. Add Devices to Multicast Objects

Devices can be added to a Multicast Team with cuMulticastAddDevice:

```javascript
cuMulticastAddDevice(&mcHandle, device);
```

This step needs to be completed on all processes controlling devices that should participate in a Multicast Team before memory on any device is bound to the Multicast Object.

## 14.9.4. Bind Memory to Multicast Objects

After a Multicast Object has been created and all participating devices have been added to the Multicast Object it needs to be backed with physical memory allocated with cuMemCreate for each device:

cuMulticastBindMem(mcHandle, mcOffset, memHandle, memOffset, size, 0 ∕\*flags\*∕);

## 14.9.5. Use Multicast Mappings

To use Multicast Mappings in CUDA C++ it is required to use the multimem PTX instructions with Inline PTX Assembly:

```txt
__global__ void all_reduce_norm_barrier_kernel(float* l2_norm,
                                float* partial_l2_norm_mc,
                                unsigned int* arrival_counter_uc,
    unsigned int* arrival_counter_mc,
                                const unsigned int expected_count) {
        assert( 1 == blockDim.x * blockDim.y * blockDim.z * gridDim.x * gridDim.y *
        gridDim.z );
        float l2_norm_sum = 0.0;
#if __CUDA_ARCH__ >= 900

        // atomic reduction to all replicas
        // this can be conceptually thought of as __threadfence_system(); atomicAdd_
        system(arrival_counter_mc, 1);
        asm volatile ("multimem.red.release.sys.global.add.u32 [%0], %1;" :: "l"(arrival_
        counter_mc), "n"(1) : "memory");

        // Need a fence between Multicast (mc) and Unicast (uc) access to the same memory
        `arrival_counter_uc` and `arrival_counter_mc`:
        // - fence.proxy instructions establish an ordering between memory accesses that
        may happen through different proxies
        // - Value .alias of the .proxykind qualifier refers to memory accesses performed
        using virtually aliased addresses to the same memory location.
        // from https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/parallel-thread-execution/#parallel-
        synchronization-and-communication-instructions-membar
        asm volatile ("fence.proxy.alias;" ::: "memory");

        // spin wait with acquire ordering on UC mapping till all peers have arrived in
        this iteration
        // Note: all ranks need to reach another barrier after this kernel, such that it is
        not possible for the barrier to be unblocked by an
        // arrival of a rank for the next iteration if some other rank is slow.
        cuda::atomic_ref<unsigned int,cuda::thread_scope_system> ac(arrival_counter_uc);
        while (expected_count > ac.load(cuda::memory_order_acquire));

        // Atomic load reduction from all replicas. It does not provide ordering so it can
        be relaxed.
        asm volatile ("multimem.ld_reduce.relaxed.sys.global.add.f32 %0, [%1];" : "=f"(l2_
        norm_sum) : "l"(partial_l2_norm_mc) : "memory");

#else
    #error "ERROR: multimem instructions require compute capability 9.0 or larger."
#endif
```

(continues on next page)

(continued from previous page)

$$
* 1 2 \_ n o r m = s t d:: s q r t (1 2 \_ n o r m \_ s u m);
$$

# Chapter 15. Stream Ordered Memory Allocator

Warning: This document has been replaced by a new CUDA Programming Guide. The information in this document should be considered legacy, and this document is no longer being updated as of CUDA 13.0. Please refer to the CUDA Programming Guide for up-to-date information on CUDA.

## 15.1. Introduction

Managing memory allocations using cudaMalloc and cudaFree causes GPU to synchronize across all executing CUDA streams. The Stream Order Memory Allocator enables applications to order memory allocation and deallocation with other work launched into a CUDA stream such as kernel launches and asynchronous copies. This improves application memory use by taking advantage of stream-ordering semantics to reuse memory allocations. The allocator also allows applications to control the allocator’s memory caching behavior. When set up with an appropriate release threshold, the caching behavior allows the allocator to avoid expensive calls into the OS when the application indicates it is willing to accept a bigger memory footprint. The allocator also supports the easy and secure sharing of allocations between processes.

For many applications, the Stream Ordered Memory Allocator reduces the need for custom memory management abstractions, and makes it easier to create high-performance custom memory management for applications that need it. For applications and libraries that already have custom memory allocators, adopting the Stream Ordered Memory Allocator enables multiple libraries to share a common pool of memory managed by the driver, thus reducing excess memory consumption. Additionally, the driver can perform optimizations based on its awareness of the allocator and other stream management APIs. Finally, Nsight Compute and the Next-Gen CUDA debugger is aware of the allocator as part of their CUDA 11.3 toolkit support.

## 15.2. Query for Support

The user can determine whether or not a device supports the stream ordered memory allocator by calling cudaDeviceGetAttribute() with the device attribute cudaDevAttrMemoryPoolsSupported.

Starting with CUDA 11.3, IPC memory pool support can be queried with the cudaDevAttrMemoryPoolSupportedHandleTypes device attribute. Previous drivers will return cudaErrorInvalid-Value as those drivers are unaware of the attribute enum.

```txt
int driverVersion = 0;
int deviceSupportsMemoryPools = 0;
int poolSupportedHandleTypes = 0;
cudaDriverGetVersion(&driverVersion);
if (driverVersion >= 11020) {
    cudaDeviceGetAttribute(&deviceSupportsMemoryPools,
                             cudaDevAttrMemoryPoolsSupported, device);
}
if (deviceSupportsMemoryPools != 0) {
    // `device` supports the Stream Ordered Memory Allocator
}

if (driverVersion >= 11030) {
    cudaDeviceGetAttribute(&poolSupportedHandleTypes,
                             cudaDevAttrMemoryPoolSupportedHandleTypes, device);
}
if (poolSupportedHandleTypes & cudaMemHandleTypePosixFileDescriptor) {
    // Pools on the specified device can be created with posix file descriptor-based IPC
}
```

Performing the driver version check before the query avoids hitting a cudaErrorInvalidValue error on drivers where the attribute was not yet defined. One can use cudaGetLastError to clear the error instead of avoiding it.

## 15.3. API Fundamentals (cudaMallocAsync and cudaFreeAsync)

The APIs cudaMallocAsync and cudaFreeAsync form the core of the allocator. cudaMallocAsync returns an allocation and cudaFreeAsync frees an allocation. Both APIs accept stream arguments to define when the allocation will become and stop being available for use. The pointer value returned by cudaMallocAsync is determined synchronously and is available for constructing future work. It is important to note that cudaMallocAsync ignores the current device/context when determining where the allocation will reside. Instead, cudaMallocAsync determines the resident device based on the specified memory pool or the supplied stream. The simplest use pattern is when the memory is allocated, used, and freed back into the same stream.

```cpp
void *ptr;
size_t size = 512;
cudaMallocAsync(&ptr, size, cudaStreamPerThread);
// do work using the allocation
kernel<<<..., cudaStreamPerThread>>>(ptr, ...);
```

(continues on next page)

(continued from previous page)

```txt
// An asynchronous free can be specified without synchronizing the cpu and GPU
cudaFreeAsync(ptr, cudaStreamPerThread);
```

When using an allocation in a stream other than the allocating stream, the user must guarantee that the access will happen after the allocation operation, otherwise the behavior is undefined. The user may make this guarantee either by synchronizing the allocating stream, or by using CUDA events to synchronize the producing and consuming streams.

cudaFreeAsync() inserts a free operation into the stream. The user must guarantee that the free operation happens after the allocation operation and any use of the allocation. Also, any use of the allocation after the free operation starts results in undefined behavior. Events and/or stream synchronizing operations should be used to guarantee any access to the allocation on other streams is complete before the freeing stream begins the free operation.

```txt
cudaMallocAsync(&ptr, size, stream1);
cudaEventRecord(event1, stream1);
//stream2 must wait for the allocation to be ready before accessing
cudaStreamWaitEvent(stream2, event1);
kernel<<<..., stream2>>>(ptr, ...);
cudaEventRecord(event2, stream2);
// stream3 must wait for stream2 to finish accessing the allocation before
// freeing the allocation
cudaStreamWaitEvent(stream3, event2);
cudaFreeAsync(ptr, stream3);
```

The user can free allocations allocated with cudaMalloc() with cudaFreeAsync(). The user must make the same guarantees about accesses being complete before the free operation begins.

```txt
cudaMalloc(&ptr, size);
kernel<<<..., stream>>>(ptr, ...);
cudaFreeAsync(ptr, stream);
```

The user can free memory allocated with cudaMallocAsync with cudaFree(). When freeing such allocations through the cudaFree() API, the driver assumes that all accesses to the allocation are complete and performs no further synchronization. The user can use cudaStreamQuery / cudaStreamSynchronize / cudaEventQuery / cudaEventSynchronize / cudaDeviceSynchronize to guarantee that the appropriate asynchronous work is complete and that the GPU will not try to access the allocation.

```c
cudaMallocAsync(&ptr, size,stream);
kernel<<<..., stream>>>(ptr, ...);
// synchronize is needed to avoid prematurely freeing the memory
cudaStreamSynchronize(stream);
cudaFree(ptr);
```

## 15.4. Memory Pools and the cudaMemPool\_t

Memory pools encapsulate virtual address and physical memory resources that are allocated and managed according to the pools attributes and properties. The primary aspect of a memory pool is the kind and location of memory it manages.

All calls to cudaMallocAsync use the resources of a memory pool. In the absence of a specified memory pool, cudaMallocAsync uses the current memory pool of the supplied stream’s device. The current memory pool for a device may be set with cudaDeviceSetMempool and queried with cudaDeviceGetMempool. By default (in the absence of a cudaDeviceSetMempool call), the current memory pool is the default memory pool of a device. The API cudaMallocFromPoolAsync and c++ overloads of cudaMallocAsync allow a user to specify the pool to be used for an allocation without setting it as the current pool. The APIs cudaDeviceGetDefaultMempool and cudaMemPoolCreate give users handles to memory pools.

Note: The mempool current to a device will be local to that device. So allocating without specifying a memory pool will always yield an allocation local to the stream’s device.

Note: cudaMemPoolSetAttribute and cudaMemPoolGetAttribute control the attributes of the memory pools.

## 15.5. Default/Implicit Pools

The default memory pool of a device may be retrieved with the cudaDeviceGetDefaultMempool API. Allocations from the default memory pool of a device are non-migratable device allocation located on that device. These allocations will always be accessible from that device. The accessibility of the default memory pool may be modified with cudaMemPoolSetAccess and queried by cudaMemPool-GetAccess. Since the default pools do not need to be explicitly created, they are sometimes referred to as implicit pools. The default memory pool of a device does not support IPC.

## 15.6. Explicit Pools

The API cudaMemPoolCreate creates an explicit pool. This allows applications to request properties for their allocation beyond what is provided by the default/implict pools. These include properties such as IPC capability, maximum pool size, allocations resident on a specific CPU NUMA node on supported platforms etc.

```javascript
// create a pool similar to the implicit pool on device 0
int device = 0;
cudaMemPoolProps poolProps = { };
poolProps.allocType = cudaMemAllocationTypePinned;
poolProps.location.id = device;
poolProps.location.type = cudaMemLocationTypeDevice;

cudaMemPoolCreate(&memPool, &poolProps));
```

The following code snippet illustrates an example of creating an IPC capable memory pool on a valid CPU NUMA node.

```txt
// create a pool resident on a CPU NUMA node that is capable of IPC sharing (via a file
    descriptor).
int cpu_numa_id = 0;
cudaMemPoolProps poolProps = { };
poolProps.allocType = cudaMemcpyAllocationTypePinned;
poolProps.location.id = cpu_numa_id;
poolProps.location.type = cudaMemcpyLocationTypeHostNuma;
poolProps.handleType = cudaMemcpyHandleTypePosixFileDescriptor;

cudaMemPoolCreate(&ipcMemPool, &poolProps));
```

## 15.7. Physical Page Caching Behavior

By default, the allocator tries to minimize the physical memory owned by a pool. To minimize the OS calls to allocate and free physical memory, applications must configure a memory footprint for each pool. Applications can do this with the release threshold attribute (cudaMemPoolAttrReleaseThreshold).

The release threshold is the amount of memory in bytes a pool should hold onto before trying to release memory back to the OS. When more than the release threshold bytes of memory are held by the memory pool, the allocator will try to release memory back to the OS on the next call to stream, event or device synchronize. Setting the release threshold to UINT64\_MAX will prevent the driver from attempting to shrink the pool after every synchronization.

```txt
Cuuid64_t setVal = UINT64_MAX;
cudaMemPoolSetAttribute(memPool, cudaMemPoolAttrReleaseThreshold, &setVal);
```

Applications that set cudaMemPoolAttrReleaseThreshold high enough to efectively disable memory pool shrinking may wish to explicitly shrink a memory pool’s memory footprint. cudaMem-PoolTrimTo allows such applications to do so. When trimming a memory pool’s footprint, the min-BytesToKeep parameter allows an application to hold onto an amount of memory it expects to need in a subsequent phase of execution.

```cpp
Cuuid64_t setVal = UINT64_MAX;
cudaMemPoolSetAttribute(memPool, cudaMemPoolAttrReleaseThreshold, &setVal);

// application phase needing a lot of memory from the stream ordered allocator
for (i=0; i<10; i++) {
    for (j=0; j<10; j++) {
        cudaMallocAsync(&ptrs[j],size[j], stream);
    }
    kernel<<<...,stream>>>(ptrs,...);
    for (j=0; j<10; j++) {
        cudaFreeAsync(ptrs[j], stream);
    }
}

// Process does not need as much memory for the next phase.
// Synchronize so that the trim operation will know that the allocations are no
// longer in use.
cudaStreamSynchronize(stream);
```

(continues on next page)

```txt
(continued from previous page)
cudaMemPoolTrimTo(mempool, 0);

// Some other process/allocation mechanism can now use the physical memory
// released by the trimming operation.
```

## 15.8. Resource Usage Statistics

In CUDA 11.3, the pool attributes cudaMemPoolAttrReservedMemCurrent, cudaMemPoolAttrReservedMemHigh, cudaMemPoolAttrUsedMemCurrent, and cudaMemPoolAttrUsedMemHigh were added to query the memory usage of a pool.

Querying the cudaMemPoolAttrReservedMemCurrent attribute of a pool reports the current total physical GPU memory consumed by the pool. Querying the cudaMemPoolAttrUsedMemCurrent of a pool returns the total size of all of the memory allocated from the pool and not available for reuse.

ThecudaMemPoolAttr\*MemHigh attributes are watermarks recording the max value achieved by the respective cudaMemPoolAttr\*MemCurrent attribute since last reset. They can be reset to the current value by using the cudaMemPoolSetAttribute API.

```c
// sample helper functions for getting the usage statistics in bulk
struct usageStatistics {
    cuuint64_t reserved;
    cuuint64_t reservedHigh;
    cuuint64_t used;
    cuuint64_t usedHigh;
};

void getUsageStatistics(cudaMemoryPool_t memPool, struct usageStatistics *statistics)
{
    cudaMemPoolGetAttribute(memPool, cudaMemPoolAttrReservedMemCurrent, statistics->reserved);
    cudaMemPoolGetAttribute(memPool, cudaMemPoolAttrReservedMemHigh, statistics->reservedHigh);
    cudaMemPoolGetAttribute(memPool, cudaMemPoolAttrUsedMemCurrent, statistics->used);
    cudaMemPoolGetAttribute(memPool, cudaMemPoolAttrUsedMemHigh, statistics->usedHigh);
}

// resetting the watermarks will make them take on the current value.
void resetStatistics(cudaMemoryPool_t memPool)
{
    cuuint64_t value = 0;
    cudaMemPoolSetAttribute(memPool, cudaMemPoolAttrReservedMemHigh, &value);
    cudaMemPoolSetAttribute(memPool, cudaMemPoolAttrUsedMemHigh, &value);
}
```

## 15.9. Memory Reuse Policies

In order to service an allocation request, the driver attempts to reuse memory that was previously freed via cudaFreeAsync() before attempting to allocate more memory from the OS. For example, memory freed in a stream can immediately be reused for a subsequent allocation request in the same stream. Similarly, when a stream is synchronized with the CPU, the memory that was previously freed in that stream becomes available for reuse for an allocation in any stream.

The stream ordered allocator has a few controllable allocation policies. The pool attributes cudaMemPoolReuseFollowEventDependencies, cudaMemPoolReuseAllowOpportunistic, and cudaMemPoolReuseAllowInternalDependencies control these policies. Upgrading to a newer CUDA driver may change, enhance, augment and/or reorder the reuse policies.

## 15.9.1. cudaMemPoolReuseFollowEventDependencies

Before allocating more physical GPU memory, the allocator examines dependency information established by CUDA events and tries to allocate from memory freed in another stream.

```txt
cudaMallocAsync(&ptr, size, originalStream);
kernel<<<..., originalStream>>>(ptr, ...);
cudaFreeAsync(ptr, originalStream);
cudaEventRecord(event, originalStream);

// waiting on the event that captures the free in another stream
// allows the allocator to reuse the memory to satisfy
// a new allocation request in the other stream when
// cudaMemPoolReuseFollowEventDependencies is enabled.
cudaStreamWaitEvent(otherStream, event);
cudaMallocAsync(&ptr2, size, otherStream);
```

## 15.9.2. cudaMemPoolReuseAllowOpportunistic

According to the cudaMemPoolReuseAllowOpportunistic policy, the allocator examines freed allocations to see if the free’s stream order semantic has been met (such as the stream has passed the point of execution indicated by the free). When this is disabled, the allocator will still reuse memory made available when a stream is synchronized with the CPU. Disabling this policy does not stop the cudaMemPoolReuseFollowEventDependencies from applying.

```txt
cudaMallocAsync(&ptr, size, originalStream);
kernel<<<..., originalStream>>>(ptr, ...);
cudaFreeAsync(ptr, originalStream);

// after some time, the kernel finishes running
wait(10);

// When cudaMemPoolReuseAllowOpportunistic is enabled this allocation request
// can be fulfilled with the prior allocation based on the progress of originalStream.
cudaMallocAsync(&ptr2, size, otherStream);
```

## 15.9.3. cudaMemPoolReuseAllowInternalDependencies

Failing to allocate and map more physical memory from the OS, the driver will look for memory whose availability depends on another stream’s pending progress. If such memory is found, the driver will insert the required dependency into the allocating stream and reuse the memory.

```txt
cudaMallocAsync(&ptr, size, originalStream);
kernel<<<..., originalStream>>>(ptr, ...);
cudaFreeAsync(ptr, originalStream);

// When cudaMemPoolReuseAllowInternalDependencies is enabled
// and the driver fails to allocate more physical memory, the driver may
// effectively perform a cudaStreamWaitEvent in the allocating stream
// to make sure that future work in 'otherStream' happens after the work
// in the original stream that would be allowed to access the original allocation.
cudaMallocAsync(&ptr2, size, otherStream);
```

## 15.9.4. Disabling Reuse Policies

While the controllable reuse policies improve memory reuse, users may want to disable them. Allowing opportunistic reuse (such as cudaMemPoolReuseAllowOpportunistic) introduces run to run variance in allocation patterns based on the interleaving of CPU and GPU execution. Internal dependency insertion (such as cudaMemPoolReuseAllowInternalDependencies) can serialize work in unexpected and potentially non-deterministic ways when the user would rather explicitly synchronize an event or stream on allocation failure.

## 15.10. Device Accessibility for Multi-GPU Support

Just like allocation accessibility controlled through the virtual memory management APIs, memory pool allocation accessibility does not follow cudaDeviceEnablePeerAccess or cuCtxEnablePeer-Access. Instead, the API cudaMemPoolSetAccess modifies what devices can access allocations from a pool. By default, allocations are accessible from the device where the allocations are located. This access cannot be revoked. To enable access from other devices, the accessing device must be peer capable with the memory pool’s device; check with cudaDeviceCanAccessPeer. If the peer capability is not checked, the set access may fail with cudaErrorInvalidDevice. If no allocations had been made from the pool, the cudaMemPoolSetAccess call may succeed even when the devices are not peer capable; in this case, the next allocation from the pool will fail.

It is worth noting that cudaMemPoolSetAccess afects all allocations from the memory pool, not just future ones. Also the accessibility reported by cudaMemPoolGetAccess applies to all allocations from the pool, not just future ones. It is recommended that the accessibility settings of a pool for a given GPU not be changed frequently; once a pool is made accessible from a given GPU, it should remain accessible from that GPU for the lifetime of the pool.

```txt
// snippet showing usage of cudaMemPoolSetAccess:
cudaError_t setAccessOnDevice(cudaMemPool_t memPool, int residentDevice,
        int accessingDevice) {
```

(continues on next page)

(continued from previous page)

```txt
cudaMemAccessDesc accessDesc = {};
accessDesc.location.type = cudaMemLocationTypeDevice;
accessDesc.location.id = accessingDevice;
accessDesc.flags = cudaMemAccessFlagsProtReadWrite;

int canAccess = 0;
cudaError_t error = cudaDeviceCanAccessPeer(&canAccess, accessingDevice,
residentDevice);
if (error != cudaSuccess) {
    return error;
} else if (canAccess == 0) {
    return cudaErrorPeerAccessUnsupported;
}

// Make the address accessible
return cudaMemPoolSetAccess(memPool, &accessDesc, 1);
}
```
