## 18.5.3. Qualifiers

## 18.5.3.1 Device Memory Space Specifiers

The \_\_device\_\_, \_\_shared\_\_, \_\_managed\_\_ and \_\_constant\_\_ memory space specifiers are not allowed on:

▶ class, struct, and union data members,

formal parameters,

▶ non-extern variable declarations within a function that executes on the host.

The \_\_device\_\_, \_\_constant\_\_ and \_\_managed\_\_ memory space specifiers are not allowed on variable declarations that are neither extern nor static within a function that executes on the device.

A \_\_device\_\_, \_\_constant\_\_, \_\_managed\_\_ or \_\_shared\_\_ variable definition cannot have a class type with a non-empty constructor or a non-empty destructor. A constructor for a class type is considered empty at a point in the translation unit, if it is either a trivial constructor or it satisfies all of the following conditions:

▶ The constructor function has been defined.

▶ The constructor function has no parameters, the initializer list is empty and the function body is an empty compound statement.

▶ Its class has no virtual functions, no virtual base classes and no non-static data member initializers.

▶ The default constructors of all base classes of its class can be considered empty.

For all the nonstatic data members of its class that are of class type (or array thereof), the default constructors can be considered empty.

A destructor for a class is considered empty at a point in the translation unit, if it is either a trivial destructor or it satisfies all of the following conditions:

▶ The destructor function has been defined.

▶ The destructor function body is an empty compound statement.

▶ Its class has no virtual functions and no virtual base classes.

▶ The destructors of all base classes of its class can be considered empty.

▶ For all the nonstatic data members of its class that are of class type (or array thereof), the destructor can be considered empty.

When compiling in the whole program compilation mode (see the nvcc user manual for a description of this mode), \_\_device\_\_, \_\_shared\_\_, \_\_managed\_\_ and \_\_constant\_\_ variables cannot be defined as external using the extern keyword. The only exception is for dynamically allocated \_\_shared\_\_ variables as described in \_\_shared

When compiling in the separate compilation mode (see the nvcc user manual for a description of this mode), \_\_device\_\_, \_\_shared\_\_, \_\_managed\_\_ and \_\_constant\_\_ variables can be defined as external using the extern keyword. nvlink will generate an error when it cannot find a definition for an external variable (unless it is a dynamically allocated \_\_shared\_\_ variable).

## 18.5.3.2 \_\_managed\_\_ Memory Space Specifier

Variables marked with the \_\_managed\_\_ memory space specifier (“managed” variables) have the following restrictions:

▶ The address of a managed variable is not a constant expression.

A managed variable shall not have a const qualified type.

A managed variable shall not have a reference type.

▶ The address or value of a managed variable shall not be used when the CUDA runtime may not be in a valid state, including the following cases:

▶ In static/dynamic initialization or destruction of an object with static or thread local storage duration.

▶ In code that executes after exit() has been called (for example, a function marked with gcc’s “\_\_attribute\_\_((destructor))”).

▶ In code that executes when CUDA runtime may not be initialized (for example, a function marked with gcc’s “\_\_attribute\_\_((constructor))”).

▶ A managed variable cannot be used as an unparenthesized id-expression argument to a decltype() expression.

▶ Managed variables have the same coherence and consistency behavior as specified for dynamically allocated managed memory.

▶ When a CUDA program containing managed variables is run on an execution platform with multiple GPUs, the variables are allocated only once, and not per GPU.

▶ A managed variable declaration without the extern linkage is not allowed within a function that executes on the host.

▶ A managed variable declaration without the extern or static linkage is not allowed within a function that executes on the device.

Here are examples of legal and illegal uses of managed variables:

```c
__device__ __managed__ int xxx = 10;          // OK

int *ptr = &xxx;                       // error: use of managed variable
                                            // (xxx) in static initialization
struct S1_t {
    int field;
    S1_t(void) : field(xxx) { };
};
struct S2_t {
    ~S2_t(void) { xxx = 10; }
```

(continues on next page)

```lisp
};
S1_t temp1;                                // error: use of managed variable
                                // (xxx) in dynamic initialization

S2_t temp2;                                // error: use of managed variable
                                // (xxx) in the destructor of
                                // object with static storage
                                // duration

__device__ __managed__ const int yyy = 10;    // error: const qualified type

__device__ __managed__ int &zzz = xxx;      // error: reference type

template <int *addr> struct S3_t { }; S3_t<&xxx> temp;                             // error: address of managed
                                // variable(xxx) not a
                                // constant expression

__global__ void kern(int *ptr)
{
    assert(ptr == &xxx);                    // OK
    xxx = 20;                            // OK
}
int main(void)
{
    int *ptr = &xxx;                             // OK
    kern<<<1,1>>>(ptr);
    cudaDeviceSynchronize();                      // OK
    xxx++;                                   // OK
    decltype(xxx) qqq;                       // error: managed variable(xxx) used
                                // as unparenthesized argument to
                                // decltype

    decltype((xxx)) zzz = yyy;          // OK
}
```

## 18.5.3.3 Volatile Qualifier

Note: The volatile keyword is supported to maintain compatibility with ISO C++; however, few if any of its remaining non-deprecated uses apply to GPUs.

Reads and writes to volatile qualified objects are not atomic, and are compiled to one or more .volatile instructions which do NOT guarantee:

▶ ordering of memory operations, or

▶ that the number of memory operations performed by the HW matches the number of PTX instructions.

That is, CUDA C++ volatile is not suitable for:

Inter-Thread Synchronization: use atomic operations via cuda::atomic\_ref, cuda::atomic, or Atomic Functions instead. Atomic memory operations provide inter-thread synchronization guarantees and deliver much better performance than volatile operations. CUDA C++ volatile operations do not provide any inter-thread synchronization guarantees and are therefore not correct for inter-thread synchronization. The following example shows how to pass a message across two threads using atomic operations.

cuda::atomic\_ref

```cpp
__global__ void kernel(int* flag, int* data) {
    cuda::atomic_ref<int, cuda::thread_scope_device> f{*flag};
    if (threadIdx.x == 0) {
        // Consumer: blocks until flag is set by producer, then reads data
        while(f.load(cuda::memory_order_acquire) == 0);
        if (*data != 42) __trap(); // Errors if wrong data read
    } else if (threadIdx.x == 1) {
        // Producer: writes data then sets flag
        *data = 42;
        f.store(1, cuda::memory_order_release);
    }
}
```

## cuda::atomic

```cpp
__global__ void kernel(cuda::atomic<int, cuda::thread_scope_device>*
flag, int* data) {
  if (threadIdx.x == 0) {
    // Consumer: blocks until flag is set by producer, then reads data
    while(flag->load(cuda::memory_order_acquire) == 0);
    if (*data != 42) __trap(); // Errors if wrong data read
  } else if (threadIdx.x == 1) {
    // Producer: writes data then sets flag
    *data = 42;
    flag->store(1, cuda::memory_order_release);
  }
}
```

Atomic Functions (atomicAdd and atomicExch)

```lisp
__global__ void kernel(int* flag, int* data) {
    if (threadIdx.x == 0) {
        // Consumer: blocks until flag is set by producer, then reads data
        while(atomicAdd(flag, 0) == 0); // Load with Relaxed Read-Modify-Write
        __threadfence();                  // SequentiallyConsistent fence
        if (*data != 42) __trap();      // Errors if wrong data read
    } else if (threadIdx.x == 1) {
        // Producer: writes data then sets flag
        *data = 42;
        __threadfence();      // SequentiallyConsistent fence
        atomicExch(flag, 1); // Store with Relaxed Read-Modify-Write
    }
}
```

Memory Mapped IO (MMIO): use PTX MMIO operations via inline PTX instead. PTX MMIO operations strictly preserve the number of memory accesses performed. CUDA C++ volatile operations do not preserve the number of memory accesses performed, and may perform more or less accesses than requested in a non-deterministic way, making them incorrect for MMIO. The following example shows how to read and write from a register using PTX mmio operations.

```javascript
__global__ void kernel(int* mmio_reg0, int* mmio_reg1) {
    // Write to MMIO register:
    int value = 13;
    asm volatile("st.relaxed.mmio.sys.u32 [%0], %1;" :: "l"(mmio_reg0), "r
    "value) : "memory");

    // Read MMIO register:
    asm volatile("ld.relaxed.mmio.sys.u32 %0, [%1];" : "=r"(value) : "l
    "mmio_reg1) : "memory");

    if (value != 42) __trap(); // Errors if wrong data read
}
```

## 18.5.4. Pointers

Dereferencing a pointer either to global or shared memory in code that is executed on the host, or to host memory in code that is executed on the device results in an undefined behavior, most often in a segmentation fault and application termination.

The address obtained by taking the address of a \_\_device\_\_, \_\_shared\_\_ or \_\_constant\_\_ variable can only be used in device code. The address of a \_\_device\_\_ or \_\_constant\_\_ variable obtained through cudaGetSymbolAddress() as described in Device Memory can only be used in host code.

## 18.5.5. Operators

## 18.5.5.1 Assignment Operator

\_\_constant\_\_ variables can only be assigned from the host code through runtime functions (Device Memory); they cannot be assigned from the device code.

\_\_shared\_\_ variables cannot have an initialization as part of their declaration.

It is not allowed to assign values to any of the built-in variables defined in Built-in Variables.

## 18.5.5.2 Address Operator

It is not allowed to take the address of any of the built-in variables defined in Built-in Variables.

## 18.5.6. Run Time Type Information (RTTI)

The following RTTI-related features are supported in host code, but not in device code.

▶ typeid operator

▶ std::type\_info

▶ dynamic\_cast operator

## 18.5.7. Exception Handling

Exception handling is only supported in host code, but not in device code.

Exception specification is not supported for \_\_global\_\_ functions.

## 18.5.8. Standard Library

Standard libraries are only supported in host code, but not in device code, unless specified otherwise.

## 18.5.9. Namespace Reservations

Unless an exception is otherwise noted, it is undefined behavior to add any declarations or definitions to cuda::, nv::, cooperative\_groups:: or any namespace nested within.

Examples:

```cpp
namespace cuda{
    // Bad: class declaration added to namespace cuda
    struct foo{};

    // Bad: function definition added to namespace cuda
```

(continues on next page)

(continued from previous page)

```cpp
cudaStream_t make_stream(){
    cudaStream_t s;
    cudaStreamCreate(&s);
    return s;
}
} // namespace cuda

namespace cuda{
    namespace utils{
        // Bad: function definition added to namespace nested within cuda
        cudaStream_t make_stream(){
            cudaStream_t s;
            cudaStreamCreate(&s);
            return s;
        }
    } // namespace utils
} // namespace cuda

namespace utils{
    namespace cuda{
        // Okay: namespace cuda may be used nested within a non-reserved namespace
        cudaStream_t make_stream(){
            cudaStream_t s;
            cudaStreamCreate(&s);
            return s;
        }
    } // namespace cuda
} // namespace utils

// Bad: Equivalent to adding symbols to namespace cuda at global scope
using namespace utils;
```

## 18.5.10. Functions

## 18.5.10.1 External Linkage

A call within some device code of a function declared with the extern qualifier is only allowed if the function is defined within the same compilation unit as the device code, i.e., a single file or several files linked together with relocatable device code and nvlink.

## 18.5.10.2 Implicitly-declared and non-virtual explicitly-defaulted functions

Let F denote a function that is either implicitly-declared or is a non-virtual function that is explicitlydefaulted on its first declaration. The execution space specifiers (\_\_host\_\_, \_\_device\_\_) for F are the union of the execution space specifiers of all the functions that invoke it (note that a \_\_global\_\_ caller will be treated as a \_\_device\_\_ caller for this analysis). For example:

```txt
class Base {
  int x;
public:
  __host__ __device__ Base(void) : x(10) {}
```

(continues on next page)

```lisp
};

class Derived : public Base {
    int y;
};

class Other: public Base {
    int z;
};

__device__ void foo(void)
{
    Derived D1;
    Other D2;
}

__host__ void bar(void)
{
    Other D3;
}
```

(continued from previous page)

Here, the implicitly-declared constructor function “Derived::Derived” will be treated as a \_\_device\_\_ function, since it is invoked only from the \_\_device\_\_ function “foo”. The implicitly-declared constructor function “Other::Other” will be treated as a \_\_host\_\_ \_\_device\_\_ function, since it is invoked both from a \_\_device\_\_ function “foo” and a \_\_host\_\_ function “bar”.

In addition, if F is an implicitly declared virtual function (e.g.,a virtual destructor), then the execution spaces of each virtual function D overridden by F are added to the set of execution spaces for F, if D is not implicitly declared.

For example:

```txt
struct Base1 { virtual __host__ __device__ ~Base1() { } };
struct Derived1 : Base1 { }; // implicitly-declared virtual destructor
                             // ~Derived1 has __host__ __device__
                             // execution space specifiers

struct Base2 { virtual __device__ ~Base2() = default; };
struct Derived2 : Base2 { }; // implicitly-declared virtual destructor
                             // ~Derived2 has __device__ execution
                             // space specifiers
```

## 18.5.10.3 Function Parameters

\_\_global\_\_ function parameters are passed to the device via constant memory and are limited to 32,764 bytes starting with Volta, and 4 KB on older architectures.

\_\_global\_\_ functions cannot have a variable number of arguments.

\_\_global\_\_ function parameters cannot be pass-by-reference.

In separate compilation mode, if a \_\_device\_\_ or \_\_global\_\_ function is ODR-used in a particular translation unit, then the parameter and return types of the function must be complete in that translation unit.

Example:

```perl
//first.cu:
struct S;
__device__ void foo(S); // error: type 'S' is incomplete
__device__ auto *ptr = foo;

int main() { }

//second.cu:
struct S { int x; };
__device__ void foo(S) { }

//compiler invocation
\$nvcc -std=c++14 -rdc=true first.cu second.cu -o first
nvlink error : Prototype doesn't match for '_Z3foo1S' in '/tmp/tmpxft_00005c8c_00000000-18_second.o', first defined in '/tmp/tmpxft_00005c8c_00000000-18_second.o'
nvlink fatal : merge_elf failed
```

## 18.5.10.3.1 \_\_global\_\_ Function Argument Processing

When a \_\_global\_\_ function is launched from device code, each argument must be trivially copyable and trivially destructible.

When a \_\_global\_\_ function is launched from host code, each argument type is allowed to be nontrivially copyable or non-trivially-destructible, but the processing for such types does not follow the standard C++ model, as described below. User code must ensure that this workflow does not afect program correctness. The workflow diverges from standard C++ in two areas:

## 1. Memcpy instead of copy constructor invocation

When lowering a \_\_global\_\_ function launch from host code, the compiler generates stub functions that copy the parameters one or more times by value, before eventually using memcpy to copy the arguments to the \_\_global\_\_ function’s parameter memory on the device. This occurs even if an argument was non-trivially-copyable, and therefore may break programs where the copy constructor has side efects.

Example:

```cpp
#include <cassert>
struct S {
  int x;
  int *ptr;
  __host__ __device__ S() { }
  __host__ __device__ S(const S &) { ptr = &x; }
};

__global__ void foo(S in) {
  // this assert may fail, because the compiler
  // generated code will memcpy the contents of "in"
  // from host to kernel parameter memory, so the
  // "in.ptr" is not initialized to "&in.x" because
  // the copy constructor is skipped.
  assert(in.ptr == &in.x);
}

int main() {
  S tmp;
```

(continues on next page)

```typescript
foo<<<1,1>>>(tmp);
    cudaDeviceSynchronize();
}
```

(continued from previous page)

Example:

```cpp
#include <cassert>

__managed__ int counter;
struct S1 {
S1() { }
S1(const S1 &) { ++counter; }
};

__global__ void foo(S1) {

/* this assertion may fail, because
    the compiler generates stub
    functions on the host for a kernel
    launch, and they may copy the
    argument by value more than once.
*/
assert(counter == 1);
}

int main() {
S1 V;
foo<<<1,1>>>(V);
cudaDeviceSynchronize();
}
```

## 2. Destructor may be invoked before the \`\`\_\_global\_\_\`\` function has finished

Kernel launches are asynchronous with host execution. As a result, if a \_\_global\_\_ function argument has a non-trivial destructor, the destructor may execute in host code even before the \_\_global\_\_ function has finished execution. This may break programs where the destructor has side efects.

Example:

```txt
struct S {
  int *ptr;
  S() : ptr(nullptr) { }
  S(const S &) { cudaMallocManaged(&ptr, sizeof(int)); }
  ~S() { cudaFree(ptr); }
};

__global__ void foo(S in) {

    //error: This store may write to memory that has already been
    //      freed (see below).
    *(in.ptr) = 4;

}

int main() {
  S V;
```

(continues on next page)

(continued from previous page)

```txt
/* The object 'V' is first copied by value to a compiler-generated
 * stub function that does the kernel launch, and the stub function
 * bitwise copies the contents of the argument to kernel parameter
 * memory.
 * However, GPU kernel execution is asynchronous with host
 * execution.
 * As a result, S::~S() will execute when the stub function  returns, releasing
 allocated memory, even though the kernel may not have finished execution.
 */
foo<<<1,1>>>(V);
cudaDeviceSynchronize();
}
```

## 18.5.10.3.2 Toolkit and Driver Compatibility

Developers must use the 12.1 Toolkit and r530 driver or higher to compile, launch, and debug kernels that accept parameters larger than 4KB. If such kernels are launched on older drivers, CUDA will issue the error CUDA\_ERROR\_NOT\_SUPPORTED.

## 18.5.10.3.3 Link Compatibility across Toolkit Revisions

When linking device objects, if at least one device object contains a kernel with a parameter larger than 4KB, the developer must recompile all objects from their respective device sources with the 12.1 toolkit or higher before linking them together. Failure to do so will result in a linker error.

## 18.5.10.4 Static Variables within Function

Variable memory space specifiers are allowed in the declaration of a static variable V within the immediate or nested block scope of a function F where:

▶ F is a \_\_global\_\_ or \_\_device\_\_-only function.

▶ F is a \_\_host\_\_ \_\_device\_\_ function and \_\_CUDA\_ARCH\_\_ is defined<sup>11</sup>.

If no explicit memory space specifier is present in the declaration of V, an implicit \_\_device\_\_ specifier is assumed during device compilation.

V has the same initialization restrictions as a variable with the same memory space specifiers declared in namespace scope for example a \_\_device\_\_ variable cannot have a ‘non-empty’ constructor (see Device Memory Space Specifiers).

Examples of legal and illegal uses of function-scope static variables are shown below.

```txt
struct S1_t {
  int x;
};

struct S2_t {
  int x;
```

(continues on next page)

<sup>11</sup> The intent is to allow variable memory space specifiers for static variables in a \_\_host\_\_ \_\_device\_\_ function during device compilation, but disallow it during host compilation

```lisp
__device__ S2_t(void) { x = 10; }
};

struct S3_t {
  int x;
  __device__ S3_t(int p) : x(p) { }
};

__device__ void f1() {
  static int i1;                 // OK, implicit __device__ memory space specifier
  static int i2 = 11;         // OK, implicit __device__ memory space specifier
  static __managed__ int m1;   // OK
  static __device__ int d1;    // OK
  static __constant__ int c1; // OK

  static S1_t i3;             // OK, implicit __device__ memory space specifier
  static S1_t i4 = {22};       // OK, implicit __device__ memory space specifier

  static __shared__ int i5;   // OK

  int x = 33;
  static int i6 = x;           // error: dynamic initialization is not allowed
  static S1_t i7 = {x};        // error: dynamic initialization is not allowed

  static S2_t i8;             // error: dynamic initialization is not allowed
  static S3_t i9(44);       // error: dynamic initialization is not allowed
}

__host__ __device__ void f2() {
  static int i1;               // OK, implicit __device__ memory space specifier
                                          // during device compilation.
#ifdef __CUDA_ARCH__
  static __device__ int d1;   // OK, declaration is only visible during device
                                          // compilation (__CUDA_ARCH__ is defined)
#else
  static int d0;                // OK, declaration is only visible during host
                                          // compilation (__CUDA_ARCH__ is not defined)
#endif

  static __device__ int d2;   // error: __device__ variable inside
                                          // a host function during host compilation
                                          // i.e. when __CUDA_ARCH__ is not defined

  static __shared__ int i2;   // error: __shared__ variable inside
                                          // a host function during host compilation
                                          // i.e. when __CUDA_ARCH__ is not defined
}
```

## 18.5.10.5 Function Pointers

The address of a \_\_global\_\_ function taken in host code cannot be used in device code (e.g. to launch the kernel). Similarly, the address of a \_\_global\_\_ function taken in device code cannot be used in host code.

It is not allowed to take the address of a \_\_device\_\_ function in host code.

## 18.5.10.6 Function Recursion

\_\_global\_\_ functions do not support recursion.

## 18.5.10.7 Friend Functions

A \_\_global\_\_ function or function template cannot be defined in a friend declaration.

Example:

```c
struct S1_t {
  friend __global__
  void foo1(void);  // OK: not a definition
  template<typename T>
  friend __global__
  void foo2(void); // OK: not a definition

  friend __global__
  void foo3(void) { } // error: definition in friend declaration

  template<typename T>
  friend __global__
  void foo4(void) { } // error: definition in friend declaration
};
```
