## 24.1.2.4 Diference between Unified Memory and Mapped Memory

The main diference between Unified Memory and Mapped Memory is that CUDA Mapped Memory does not guarantee that all kinds of memory accesses (for example atomics) are supported on all systems, while Unified Memory does. The limited set of memory operations that are guaranteed to be portably supported by CUDA Mapped Memory is available on more systems than Unified Memory.

## 24.1.2.5 Pointer Attributes

CUDA Programs may check whether a pointer addresses a CUDA Managed Memory allocation by calling cudaPointerGetAttributes() and testing whether the pointer attribute value is cudaMemoryTypeManaged.

This API returns cudaMemoryTypeHost for System-Allocated Memory that has been registered with cudaHostRegister() and cudaMemoryTypeUnregistered for System-Allocated Memory that CUDA is unaware of.

Pointer attributes do not state where the memory resides, they state how the memory was allocated or registered.

The following example shows how to detect the type of pointer at runtime:

```javascript
char const* kind(cudaPointerAttributes a, bool pma, bool cma) {
    switch(a.type) {
        case cudaMemoryTypeHost: return pma?
            "Unified: CUDA Host or Registered Memory" :
            "Not Unified: CUDA Host or Registered Memory";
        case cudaMemoryTypeDevice: return "Not Unified: CUDA Device Memory";
        case cudaMemoryTypeManaged: return cma?
            "Unified: CUDA Managed Memory" : "Not Unified: CUDA Managed Memory";
```

(continues on next page)

(continued from previous page)

```c
case cudaMemoryTypeUnregistered: return pma?
    "Unified: System-Allocated Memory" :
    "Not Unified: System-Allocated Memory";
default: return "unknown";
}
}

void check_pointer(int i, void* ptr) {
cudaPointerAttributes attr;
cudaPointerGetAttributes(&attr, ptr);
int pma = 0, cma = 0, device = 0;
cudaGetDevice(&device);
cudaDeviceGetAttribute(&pma, cudaDevAttrPageableMemoryAccess, device);
cudaDeviceGetAttribute(&cma, cudaDevAttrConcurrentManagedAccess, device);
printf("Pointer %d: memory is %s\n", i, kind(attr, pma, cma));
}

__managed__ int managed_var = 5;

int main() {
int* ptr[5];
ptr[0] = (int*)malloc(sizeof(int));
cudaMallocManaged(&ptr[1], sizeof(int));
cudaMallocHost(&ptr[2], sizeof(int));
cudaMalloc(&ptr[3], sizeof(int));
ptr[4] = &managed_var;

for (int i = 0; i < 5; ++i) check_pointer(i, ptr[i]);

cudaFree(ptr[3]);
cudaFreeHost(ptr[2]);
cudaFree(ptr[1]);
free(ptr[0]);
return 0;
}
```

## 24.1.2.6 Runtime detection of Unified Memory Support Level

The following example shows how to detect the Unified Memory support level at runtime:

```c
int main() {
    int d;
    cudaGetDevice(&d);

    int pma = 0;
    cudaDeviceGetAttribute(&pma, cudaDevAttrPageableMemoryAccess, d);
    printf("Full Unified Memory Support: %s\n", pma == 1? "YES" : "NO");

    int cma = 0;
    cudaDeviceGetAttribute(&cma, cudaDevAttrConcurrentManagedAccess, d);
    printf("CUDA Managed Memory with full support: %s\n", cma == 1? "YES" : "NO");

    return 0;
}
```

## 24.1.2.7 GPU Memory Oversubscription

Unified Memory enables applications to oversubscribe the memory of any individual processor: in other words they can allocate and share arrays larger than the memory capacity of any individual processor in the system, enabling among others out-of-core processing of datasets that do not fit within a single GPU, without adding significant complexity to the programming model.

## 24.1.2.8 Performance Hints

The following sections describes the available unified memory performance hints, which may be used on all Unified Memory, for example, CUDA Managed memory or, on systems with full CUDA Unified Memory support, also all System-Allocated Memory. These APIs are hints, that is, they do not impact the semantics of applications, only their peformance. That is, they can be added or removed anywhere on any application without impacting its results.

CUDA Unified Memory may not always have all the information necessary to make the best performance decisions related to unified memory. These performance hints enable the application to provide CUDA with more information.

Note that applications should only use these hints if they improve their performance.

## 24.1.2.8.1 Data Prefetching

The cudaMemPrefetchAsync API is an asynchronous stream-ordered API that may migrate data to reside closer to the specified processor. The data may be accessed while it is being prefetched. The migration does not begin until all prior operations in the stream have completed, and completes before any subsequent operation in the stream.

```txt
cudaError_t cudaMemPrefetchAsync(const void *devPtr,
                               size_t count,
                               struct cudaMemLocation location,
                               unsigned int flags,
                               cudaStream_t stream);
```

A memory region containing [devPtr, devPtr + count) may be migrated to the destination device location.id if location.type is cudaMemLocationTypeDevice - or CPU if location.type is cudaMemLocationTypeHost - when the prefetch task is executed in the given stream. For details on flags, see the current CUDA Runtime API documentation.

Consider a simple code example below:

## System Allocator

```cpp
void test_prefetch_sam(cudaStream_t s) {
    char *data = (char*)malloc(N);
    init_data(data, N);                                // execute on CPU
    cudaMemLocation location = {.type = cudaMemLocationTypeDevice, .id = myGpuId};
    cudaMemPrefetchAsync(data, N, location, s, 0 /* flags */); // prefetch to GPU
    mykernel<<<(N + TPB - 1) / TPB, TPB, 0, s>>>(data, N);      // execute on GPU
    location = {.type = cudaMemLocationTypeHost};
    cudaMemPrefetchAsync(data, N, location, s, 0 /* flags */); // prefetch to CPU
    cudaStreamSynchronize(s);
```

(continues on next page)

```txt
use_data(data, N);
    free(data);
}
```

(continued from previous page)

## Managed

```cpp
void test_prefetch_managed(cudaStream_t s) {
    char *data;
    cudaMallocManaged(&data, N);
    init_data(data, N);                                // execute on CPU
    cudaMemLocation location = {.type = cudaMemLocationTypeDevice, .id = myGpuId};
    cudaMemPrefetchAsync(data, N, location, s, 0 /* flags */);  // prefetch to GPU
    mykernel<<<(N + TPB - 1) / TPB, TPB, 0, s>>>(data, N);      // execute on GPU
    location = {.type = cudaMemLocationTypeHost};
    cudaMemPrefetchAsync(data, N, location, s, 0 /* flags */);  // prefetch to CPU
    cudaStreamSynchronize(s);
    use_data(data, N);
    cudaFree(data);
}
```

## 24.1.2.8.2 Memory Discarding

The cudaMemDiscardBatchAsync API allows applications to inform the CUDA runtime that the contents of specified memory ranges are no longer useful. The Unified Memory driver performs automatic memory transfers due to fault-based migration or memory evictions to support device memory oversubscription. These automatic memory transfers can sometimes be redundant, which severely decreases performance. Marking an address range as ‘discard’ will inform the Unified Memory driver that the application has consumed the contents in the range and there is no need to migrate this data on prefetches or page evictions in order to make room for other allocations. Reading a discarded page without a subsequent write access or prefetch will yield an indeterminate value. Whereas any new writes after the discard operation is guaranteed to be seen by a subsequent read access. Concurrent accesses or prefetches to address ranges being discarded will result in undefined behavior.

```c
cudaError_t cudaMemDiscardBatchAsync(void **dptrs,
                               size_t *sizes,
                               size_t count,
                               unsigned long long flags,
                               cudaStream_t stream);
```

The function performs a batch of memory discards on address ranges specified in dptrs and sizes arrays. Both arrays must be of the same length as specified by count. Each memory range must refer to managed memory allocated via cudaMallocManaged or declared via \_\_managed\_\_ variables.

The cudaMemDiscardAndPrefetchBatchAsync API combines both discard and prefetch operations. Calling cudaMemDiscardAndPrefetchBatchAsync is semantically equivalent to calling cudaMemDiscardBatchAsync followed by cudaMemPrefetchBatchAsync, but is more optimal. This is useful when the application needs the memory to be on the target location but does not need the contents of the memory.

```csv
cudaError_t cudaMemDiscardAndPrefetchBatchAsync(void **dptrs,
size_t *sizes,
```

(continues on next page)

(continued from previous page)

```txt
size_t count,
struct cudaMemLocation *prefetchLocs,
size_t *prefetchLocIdxs,
size_t numPrefetchLocs,
unsigned long long flags,
cudaStream_t stream);
```

The prefetchLocs array specifies the destinations for prefetching, while prefetchLocIdxs indicates which operations each prefetch location applies to. For example, if a batch has 10 operations and the first 6 should be prefetched to one location while the remaining 4 to another, then numPrefetchLocs would be 2, prefetchLocIdxs would be {0, 6}, and prefetchLocs would contain the two destination locations.

## Important considerations:

▶ Reading from a discarded range without a subsequent write or prefetch will return an indeterminate value

▶ The discard operation can be undone by writing to the range or prefetching it via cudaMem-PrefetchAsync

▶ Any reads, writes, or prefetches that occur simultaneously with the discard operation result in undefined behavior

▶ All devices must have a non-zero value for cudaDevAttrConcurrentManagedAccess

## 24.1.2.8.3 Data Usage Hints

When multiple processors simultaneously access the same data, cudaMemAdvise may be used to hint how the data at [devPtr, devPtr + count) will be accessed:

```txt
cudaError_t cudaMemAdvise(const void *devPtr,
                    size_t count,
                    enum cudaMemoryAdvise advice,
                    struct cudaMemLocation location);
```

Where advice may take the following values:

▶ cudaMemAdviseSetReadMostly: This implies that the data is mostly going to be read from and only occasionally written to. In general, it allows trading of read bandwidth for write bandwidth on this region. Example:

```cpp
void test_advise_managed(cudaStream_t stream) {
    char *dataPtr;
    size_t dataSize = 64 * TPB;  // 16 KiB
    // Allocate memory using cudaMallocManaged
    // (malloc may be used on systems with full CUDA Unified memory support)
    cudaMallocManaged(&dataPtr, dataSize);
    // Set the advice on the memory region
    cudaMemLocation loc = {.type = cudaMemLocationTypeDevice, .id = myGpuId};
    cudaMemAdvise(dataPtr, dataSize, cudaMemAdviseSetReadMostly, loc);
    int outerLoopIter = 0;
    while (outerLoopIter < maxOuterLoopIter) {
        // The data is written to in the outer loop on the CPU
        init_data(dataPtr, dataSize);
        // The data is made available to all GPUs by prefetching.
```

(continues on next page)

(continued from previous page)

```cpp
// Prefetching here causes read duplication of data instead
// of data migration
cudaMemLocation location;
location.type = cudaMemLocationTypeDevice;
for (int device = 0; device < maxDevices; device++) {
    location.id = device;
    cudaMemcpyPrefetchAsync(dataPtr, dataSize, location, 0 /* flags */, stream);
}
// The kernel only reads this data in the inner loop
int innerLoopIter = 0;
while (innerLoopIter < maxInnerLoopIter) {
    mykernel<<<32, TPB, 0, stream>>>(const char *)dataPtr, dataSize);
    innerLoopIter++;
}
outerLoopIter++;
}
cudaFree(dataPtr);
}
```

cudaMemAdviseSetPreferredLocation: In general, any memory may be migrated at any time to any location, for example, when a given processor is running out of physical memory. This hint tells the system that migrating this memory region away from its preferred location is undesired, by setting the preferred location for the data to be the physical memory belonging to device. Passing in a value of cudaMemLocationTypeHost for location.type sets the preferred location as CPU memory. Other hints, like cudaMemPrefetchAsync, may override this hint, leading the memory to be migrated away from its preferred location.

▶ cudaMemAdviseSetAccessedBy: In some systems, it may be beneficial for performance to establish a mapping into memory before accessing the data from a given processor. This hint tells the system that the data will be frequently accessed by location.id when location.type is cudaMemLocationTypeDevice, enabling the system to assume that creating these mappings pays of. This hint does not imply where the data should reside, but it can be combined with cudaMemAdviseSetPreferredLocation to specify that.

Each advice can be also unset by using one of the following values: cudaMemAdviseUnsetRead-Mostly, cudaMemAdviseUnsetPreferredLocation and cudaMemAdviseUnsetAccessedBy.

## 24.1.2.8.4 Querying Data Usage Attributes on Managed Memory

A program can query memory range attributes assigned through cudaMemAdvise or cudaMem-PrefetchAsync on CUDA Managed Memory by using the following API:

```txt
cudaMemRangeGetAttribute(void *data,
                    size_t dataSize,
                    enum cudaMemRangeAttribute attribute,
                    const void *devPtr,
                    size_t count);
```

This function queries an attribute of the memory range starting at devPtr with a size of count bytes. The memory range must refer to managed memory allocated via cudaMallocManaged or declared via \_\_managed\_\_ variables. It is possible to query the following attributes:

▶ cudaMemRangeAttributeReadMostly: the result returned will be 1 if the entire memory range has the cudaMemAdviseSetReadMostly attribute set, or 0 otherwise.

cudaMemRangeAttributePreferredLocation: the result returned will be a GPU device id or cudaCpuDeviceId if the entire memory range has the corresponding processor as preferred location, otherwise cudaInvalidDeviceId will be returned. An application can use this query API to make decision about staging data through CPU or GPU depending on the preferred location attribute of the managed pointer. Note that the actual location of the memory range at the time of the query may be diferent from the preferred location.

▶ cudaMemRangeAttributeAccessedBy: will return the list of devices that have that advise set for that memory range.

▶ cudaMemRangeAttributeLastPrefetchLocation: will return the last location to which the memory range was prefetched explicitly using cudaMemPrefetchAsync. Note that this simply returns the last location that the application requested to prefetch the memory range to. It gives no indication as to whether the prefetch operation to that location has completed or even begun.

## ▶ cudaMemRangeAttributePreferredLocationType:

will return the location type of the preferred location which will be cudaMemLocationType-Device if all pages in the memory range have the same GPU as their preferred location, or will be cudaMemLocationTypeHost if all pages in the memory range have the CPU as their preferred location, or it will be cudaMemLocationTypeHostNuma if all the pages in the memory range have the same host NUMA node ID as their preferred location or it will be cudaMemLocationTypeInvalid if either all the pages don’t have the same preferred location or some of the pages don’t have a preferred location at all.

## ▶ cudaMemRangeAttributePreferredLocationId:

If the cudaMemRangeAttributePreferredLocationType query for the same address range returns cudaMemLocationTypeDevice, it will be a valid device ordinal or if it returns cudaMemLocationTypeHostNuma, it will be a valid host NUMA node ID or if it returns any other location type, the id should be ignored.

## ▶ cudaMemRangeAttributeLastPrefetchLocationType:

will be the last location type to which all pages in the memory range were prefetched explicitly via cudaMemPrefetchAsync which will be cudaMemLocationTypeDevice if all pages in the memory range were prefetched to the same GPU, or will be cudaMemLocationType-Host if all pages in the memory range were prefetched to the CPU or it will be cudaMemLocationTypeHostNuma if all the pages in the memory range were prefetched to the same host NUMA node ID or it will be cudaMemLocationTypeInvalid if either all the pages were not prefetched to the same location or some of the pages were never prefetched at all.

## ▶ cudaMemRangeAttributeLastPrefetchLocationId:

If the cudaMemRangeAttributeLastPrefetchLocationType query for the same address range returns cudaMemLocationTypeDevice, it will be a valid device ordinal or if it returns cudaMemLocationTypeHostNuma, it will be a valid host NUMA node ID or if it returns any other location type, the id should be ignored.

Additionally, multiple attributes can be queried by using corresponding cudaMemRangeGetAttributes function.

# 24.2. Unified memory on devices with full CUDA Unified Memory support

## 24.2.1. System-Allocated Memory: in-depth examples

Systems with full CUDA Unified Memory support allow the device to access any memory owned by the host process interacting with the device. This section shows a few advanced use-cases, using a kernel that simply prints the first 8 characters of an input character array to the standard output stream:

```c
__global__ void kernel(const char* type, const char* data) {
    static const int n_char = 8;
    printf("%s - first %d characters: '', type, n_char);
    for (int i = 0; i < n_char; ++i) printf("%c", data[i]);
    printf("\n");
}
```

The following tabs show various ways of how this kernel may be called:

## Malloc

```cpp
void test_malloc() {
    const char test_string[] = "Hello World";
    char* heap_data = (char*)malloc(sizeof(test_string));
    strncpy(heap_data, test_string, sizeof(test_string));
    kernel<<<1, 1>>>("malloc", heap_data);
    ASSERT(cudaDeviceSynchronize() == cudaSuccess,
        "CUDA failed with '%s'", cudaGetErrorString(cudaGetLastError()));
    free(heap_data);
}
```

## Managed

```cpp
void test_managed() {
    const char test_string[] = "Hello World";
    char* data;
    cudaMallocManaged(&data, sizeof(test_string));
    strncpy(data, test_string, sizeof(test_string));
    kernel<<<1, 1>>>("managed", data);
    ASSERT(cudaDeviceSynchronize() == cudaSuccess,
        "CUDA failed with '%s'", cudaGetErrorString(cudaGetLastError()));
    cudaFree(data);
}
```

## Stack variable

```c
void test_stack() {
    const char test_string[] = "Hello World";
    kernel<<<1, 1>>>("stack", test_string);
    ASSERT(cudaDeviceSynchronize() == cudaSuccess,
        "CUDA failed with '%s'", cudaGetErrorString(cudaGetLastError()));
}
```

## File-scope static variable

```txt
void test_static() {
    static const char test_string[] = "Hello World";
    kernel<<<1, 1>>>("static", test_string);
    ASSERT(cudaDeviceSynchronize() == cudaSuccess,
        "CUDA failed with '%s'", cudaGetErrorString(cudaGetLastError()));
}
```

## Global-scope variable

```txt
const char global_string[] = "Hello World";

void test_global() {
    kernel<<<1, 1>>>("global", global_string);
    ASSERT(cudaDeviceSynchronize() == cudaSuccess,
        "CUDA failed with '%s'", cudaGetErrorString(cudaGetLastError()));
}
```

Global-scope extern variable

```txt
// declared in separate file, see below
extern char* ext_data;

void test_extern() {
    kernel<<<1, 1>>>("extern", ext_data);
    ASSERT(cudaDeviceSynchronize() == cudaSuccess,
        "CUDA failed with '%s'", cudaGetErrorString(cudaGetLastError()));
}
```

```c
/** This may be a non-CUDA file */
char* ext_data;
static const char global_string[] = "Hello World";

void __attribute__ ((constructor)) setup(void) {
    ext_data = (char*)malloc(sizeof(global_string));
    strncpy(ext_data, global_string, sizeof(global_string));
}

void __attribute__ ((destructor)) tear_down(void) {
    free(ext_data);
}
```

The first three tabs above show the example as already detailed in the Programming Model section. The next three tabs show various ways a file-scope or global-scope variable can be accessed from the device.

Note that for the extern variable, it could be declared and its memory owned and managed by a thirdparty library, which does not interact with CUDA at all.

Also note that stack variables as well as file-scope and global-scope variables can only be accessed through a pointer by the GPU. In this specific example, this is convenient because the character array is already declared as a pointer: const char\*. However, consider the following example with a globalscope integer:

```cpp
// this variable is declared at global scope
int global_variable;

__global__ void kernel_uncompilable() {
    // this causes a compilation error: global (__host__) variables must not
    // be accessed from __device__ / __global__ code
    printf("%d\n", global_variable);
}

// On systems with pageableMemoryAccess set to 1, we can access the address
// of a global variable. The below kernel takes that address as an argument
__global__ void kernel(int* global_variable_addr) {
    printf("%d\n", *global_variable_addr);
}
int main() {
    kernel<<<1, 1>>>(&global_variable);
    ...
    return 0;
}
```

In the example above, we need to ensure to pass a pointer to the global variable to the kernel instead of directly accessing the global variable in the kernel. This is because global variables without the \_\_managed\_\_ specifier are declared as \_\_host\_\_-only by default, thus most compilers won’t allow using these variables directly in device code as of now.

## 24.2.1.1 File-backed Unified Memory

Since systems with full CUDA Unified Memory support allow the device to access any memory owned by the host process, they can directly access file-backed memory.

Here, we show a modified version of the initial example shown in the previous section to use filebacked memory in order to print a string from the GPU, read directly from an input file. In the following example, the memory is backed by a physical file, but the example applies to memory-backed files, too, as detailed in the section on Inter-Process Communication (IPC) with Unified Memory.

```c
__global__ void kernel(const char* type, const char* data) {
    static const int n_char = 8;
    printf("%s - first %d characters: '', type, n_char);
    for (int i = 0; i < n_char; ++i) printf("%c", data[i]);
    printf("\n");
}
```

```c
void test_file_backed() {
    int fd = open(INPUT_FILE_NAME, O_RDONLY);
```

(continues on next page)

```txt
ASSERT(fd >= 0, "Invalid file handle");
struct stat file_stat;
int status = fstat(fd, &file_stat);
ASSERT(status >= 0, "Invalid file stats");
char* mapped = (char*)mmap(0, file_stat.st_size, PROT_READ, MAP_PRIVATE, fd, 0);
ASSERT(mapped != MAP_FAILED, "Cannot map file into memory");
kernel<<<1, 1>>>(file-backed", mapped);
ASSERT(cudaDeviceSynchronize() == cudaSuccess,
    "CUDA failed with '%s'", cudaGetErrorString(cudaGetLastError()));
ASSERT(munmap(mapped, file_stat.st_size) == 0, "Cannot unmap file");
ASSERT(close(fd) == 0, "Cannot close file");
}
```

Note that on systems without the hostNativeAtomicSupported property, including systems with Linux HMM enabled, atomic accesses to file-backed memory are not supported.

## 24.2.1.2 Inter-Process Communication (IPC) with Unified Memory

Note: As of now, using IPC with Unified Memory can have significant performance implications.

Many applications prefer to manage one GPU per process, but still need to use Unified Memory, for example for over-subscription, and access it from multiple GPUs.

CUDA IPC (see Interprocess Communication) does not support Managed Memory: handles to this type of memory may not be shared through any of the mechanisms discussed in this section. On systems with full CUDA Unified Memory support, System-Allocated Memory is Inter-Process Communication (IPC) capable. Once access to System-Allocated Memory has been shared with other processes, the same Programming Model applies, similar to File-backed Unified Memory.

See the following references for more information on various ways of creating IPC-capable System-Allocated Memory under Linux:

▶ mmap with MAP\_SHARED

▶ POSIX IPC APIs

1 Linux memfd\_create

Note that it is not possible to share memory between diferent hosts and their devices using this technique.

## 24.2.2. Performance Tuning

In order to achieve good performance with Unified Memory, it is important to:

▶ Understand how paging works on your system, and how to avoid unnecessary page faults.

▶ Understand the various mechanisms allowing you to keep data local to the accessing processor.

▶ Consider tuning your application for the granularity of memory transfers of your system.

As general advice, Performance Hints might provide improved performance, but using them incorrectly might degrade performance compared to the default behavior. Also note that any hint has a performance cost associated with it on the host, thus useful hints must at the very least improve performance enough to overcome this cost.

## 24.2.2.1 Memory Paging and Page Sizes

Many of the sections for unified memory performance tuning assume prior knowledge on virtual addressing, memory pages and page sizes. This section attempts to define all necessary terms and explain why paging matters for performance.

All currently supported systems for Unified Memory use a virtual address space: this means that memory addresses used by an application represent a virtual location which might be mapped to a physical location where the memory actually resides.

All currently supported processors, including both CPUs and GPUs, additionally use memory paging. Because all systems use a virtual address space, there are two types of memory pages:

Virtual pages: this represents a fixed-size contiguous chunk of virtual memory per process tracked by the operating system, which can be mapped into physical memory. Note that the virtual page is linked to the mapping: for example, a single virtual address might be mapped into physical memory using diferent page sizes.

Physical pages: this represents a fixed-size contiguous chunk of memory the processor’s main Memory Management Unit (MMU) supports and into which a virtual page can be mapped.

Currently, all x86\_64 CPUs use 4KiB physical pages. Arm CPUs support multiple physical page sizes - 4KiB, 16KiB, 32KiB and 64KiB - depending on the exact CPU. Finally, NVIDIA GPUs support multiple physical page sizes, but prefer 2MiB physical pages or larger. Note that these sizes are subject to change in future hardware.

The default page size of virtual pages usually corresponds to the physical page size, but an application may use diferent page sizes as long as they are supported by the operating system and the hardware. Typically, supported virtual page sizes must be powers of 2 and multiples of the physical page size.

The logical entity tracking the mapping of virtual pages into physical pages will be referred to as a page table, and each mapping of a given virtual page with a given virtual size to physical pages is called a page table entry (PTE). All supported processors provide specific caches for the page table to speed up the translation of virtual addresses to physical addresses. These caches are called translation lookaside bufers (TLBs).

There are two important aspects for performance tuning of applications:

▶ the choice of virtual page size,

whether the system ofers a combined page table used by both CPUs and GPUs, or separate page tables for each CPU and GPU individually.

## 24.2.2.1.1 Choosing the right page size

In general, small page sizes lead to less (virtual) memory fragmentation but more TLB misses, whereas larger page sizes lead to more memory fragmentation but less TLB misses. Additionally, memory migration is generally more expensive with larger page sizes compared to smaller page sizes, because we typically migrate full memory pages. This can cause larger latency spikes in an application using large page sizes. See also the next section for more details on page faults.

One important aspect for performance tuning is that TLB misses are generally significantly more expensive on the GPU compared to the CPU. This means that if a GPU thread frequently accesses random locations of Unified Memory mapped using a small enough page size, it might be significantly slower compared to the same accesses to Unified Memory mapped using a large enough page size. While a similar efect might occur for a CPU thread randomly accessing a large area of memory mapped using a small page size, the slowdown is less pronounced, meaning that the application might want to trade-of this slowdown with having less memory fragmentation.

Note that in general, applications should not tune their performance to the physical page size of a given processor, since physical page sizes are subject to change depending on the hardware. The advice above only applies to virtual page sizes.

## 24.2.2.1.2 CPU and GPU page tables: hardware coherency vs. software coherency

Note: In the remainder of the performance tuning documentation, we will refer to systems with a combined page table for both CPUs and GPUs as hardware coherent systems. Systems with separate page tables for CPUs and GPUs are referred to as software coherent.

Hardware coherent systems such as NVIDIA Grace Hopper ofer a logically combined page table for both CPUs and GPUs. This is important because in order to access System-Allocated Memory from the GPU, the GPU uses whichever page table entry was created by the CPU for the requested memory. If that page table entry uses the default CPU page size of 4KiB or 64KiB, accesses to large virtual memory areas will cause significant TLB misses, thus significant slowdowns.

See the section on configuring huge pages for examples on how to ensure System-Allocated Memory uses large enough page sizes to avoid this type of issue.

On the other hand, on systems where the CPUs and GPUs each have their own logical page table, diferent performance tuning aspects should be considered: in order to guarantee coherency, these systems usually use page faults in case a processor accesses a memory address mapped into the physical memory of a diferent processor. Such a page fault means that:

▶ it needs to be ensured that the currently owning processor (where the physical page currently resides) cannot access this page anymore, either by deleting the page table entry or updating it.

▶ it needs to be ensured that the processor requesting access can access this page, either by creating a new page table entry or updating and existing entry, such that it becomes valid/active.

the physical page backing this virtual page must be moved/migrated to the processor requesting access: this can be an expensive operation, and the amount of work is proportional to the page size.

Overall, hardware coherent systems provide significant performance benefits compared to software coherent systems in cases where frequent concurrent accesses to the same memory page are made by both CPU and GPU threads:

▶ less page-faults: these systems do not need to use page-faults for emulating coherency or migrating memory,

less contention: these systems are coherent at cache-line granularity instead of page-size granularity, that is, when there is contention from multiple processors within a cache line, only the cache line is exchanged which is much smaller than the smallest page-size, and when the diferent processors access diferent cache-lines within a page, then there is no contention.

This impacts the performance of the following scenarios:

▶ Atomic updates to the same address concurrently from both CPUs and GPUs.

Signaling a GPU thread from a CPU thread or vice-versa.

## 24.2.2.2 Direct Unified Memory Access from host

Some devices have hardware support for coherent reads, stores and atomic accesses from the host on GPU-resident unified memory. These devices have the attribute cudaDevAttrDirectManaged-MemAccessFromHost set to 1. Note that all hardware coherent systems have this attribute set for NVLink-connected devices. On these systems, the host has direct access to GPU-resident memory without page faults and data migration (see Data Usage Hints for more details on memory usage hints). Note that with CUDA Managed Memory, the cudaMemAdviseSetAccessedBy hint with location type cudaMemLocationTypeHost is necessary to enable this direct access without page faults.

Consider an example code below:
