## 7.4 List Item Privatization

Some data-sharing attribute clauses, including reduction clauses, specify that list items that appear in their argument list may be privatized for the construct on which they appear. Each task that references a privatized list item in any statement in the construct receives at least one new list item if the construct is a loop-collapsing construct, and otherwise each such task receives one new list item. Each SIMD lane used in a simd construct that references a privatized list item in any statement in the construct receives at least one new list item. Language-specific attributes for new list items are derived from the corresponding original list items. Inside the construct, all references to the original list items are replaced by references to the new list items received by the task or SIMD lane, and the new list items have the private attribute.

If the construct is a loop-collapsing construct then, within the same collapsed logical iteration of the collapsed loops, the same new list item replaces all references to the original list item. For any two collapsed iterations, if the references to the original list item are replaced by the same new list item then the collapsed iterations must execute in some sequential order.

In the rest of the region, whether references are to a new list item or the original list item is unspecified. Therefore, if an attempt is made to reference the original list item, its value after the region is also unspecified. If a task or a SIMD lane does not reference a privatized list item, whether the task or SIMD lane receives a new list item is unspecified.

The value and/or allocation status of the original list item will change only:

• If accessed and modified via a pointer;

• If possibly accessed in the region but outside of the construct;

• As a side efect of directives or clauses; or

Fortran

• If accessed and modified via construct association.

Fortran

C++

If the construct is contained in a member function, whether accesses anywhere in the region through the implicit this pointer refer to the new list item or the original list item is unspecified.

C++

C / C++

A new list item of the same type, with automatic storage duration, is allocated for the construct. The storage and thus lifetime of these new list items last until the block in which they are created exits. The size and alignment of the new list item are determined by the type of the variable. This allocation occurs once for each task generated by the construct and once for each SIMD lane used by the construct.

Unless otherwise specified, the new list item is initialized, or has an undefined initial value, as if it had been locally declared without an initializer.

C / C++

C++

If the type of a list item is a reference to a type T then the type will be considered to be T for all purposes of the clause.

The order in which any default constructors for diferent private variables of class type are called is unspecified. The order in which any destructors for diferent private variables of class type are called is unspecified.

## Fortran

If any statement of the construct references a list item, a new list item of the same type and type parameters is allocated. This allocation occurs once for each task generated by the construct and once for each SIMD lane used by the construct. If the type of the list item has default initialization, the new list item has default initialization. Otherwise, the initial value of the new list item is undefined. The initial status of a private pointer is undefined.

For a list item or the subobject of a list item with the ALLOCATABLE attribute:

• If the allocation status is unallocated, the new list item or the subobject of the new list item will have an initial allocation status of unallocated;

• If the allocation status is allocated, the new list item or the subobject of the new list item will have an initial allocation status of allocated; and

• If the new list item or the subobject of the new list item is an array, its bounds will be the same as those of the original list item or the subobject of the original list item.

A privatized list item may be storage-associated with other variables when the data-sharing attribute clause is encountered. Storage association may exist because of base language constructs such as EQUIVALENCE or COMMON. If A is a variable that is privatized by a construct and B is a variable that is storage-associated with A then:

• The contents, allocation, and association status of B are undefined on entry to the region;

• Any definition of A, or of its allocation or association status, causes the contents, allocation, and association status of B to become undefined; and

• Any definition of B, or of its allocation or association status, causes the contents, allocation, and association status of A to become undefined.

A privatized list item may be a selector of an ASSOCIATE, SELECT RANK or SELECT TYPE construct. If the construct association is established prior to a parallel region, the association between the associate name and the original list item will be retained in the region.

The dynamic type of a privatized list item of a polymorphic type is the declared type.

Finalization of a list item of a finalizable type or subobjects of a list item of a finalizable type occurs at the end of the region. The order in which any final subroutines for diferent variables of a finalizable type are called is unspecified.

## Fortran

If a list item appears in both firstprivate and lastprivate clauses, the update required for the lastprivate clause occurs after all initializations for the firstprivate clause.

## Restrictions

The following restrictions apply to any list item that is privatized unless otherwise specified for a given data-sharing attribute clause:

• If a list item is an array or array section, it must specify contiguous storage.

• A variable of class type (or array thereof) that is privatized requires an accessible, unambiguous default constructor for the class type.

• A variable that is privatized must not have the constexpr specifier unless it is of class type with a mutable member. This restriction does not apply to the firstprivate clause.

C / C++

• A variable that is privatized must not have a const-qualified type unless it is of class type with a mutable member. This restriction does not apply to the firstprivate clause.

• A variable that is privatized must not have an incomplete type or be a reference to an incomplete type.

C / C++

Fortran

• Variables that appear in namelist statements, in variable format expressions, and in expressions for statement function definitions, must not be privatized.

• Pointers with the INTENT(IN) attribute must not be privatized. This restriction does not apply to the firstprivate clause.

• A private variable must not be coindexed or appear as an actual argument to a procedure where the corresponding dummy argument is a coarray.

• Assumed-size arrays must not be privatized.

• An optional dummy argument that is not present must not appear as a list item in a privatization clause or be privatized as a result of an implicitly determined data-sharing attribute or predetermined data-sharing attribute.

Fortran
