# 12 Parallelism Generation and Control

This chapter defines constructs for generating and controlling parallelism.

## 12.1 parallel Construct

<table><tr><td>Name: parallelCategory: executable</td><td>Association: blockProperties: cancellable, context-matching, order-concurrent-nestable, parallelism-generating, team-generating, teams-nestable, thread-limiting</td></tr></table>

## Clauses

allocate, copyin, default, firstprivate, if, message, num\_threads, private, proc\_bind, reduction, safesync, severity, shared

## Binding

The binding thread set for a parallel region is the encountering thread. The encountering thread becomes the primary thread of the new team.

## Semantics

When a thread encounters a parallel construct, a team is formed to execute the parallel region. The thread that encountered the parallel construct becomes the primary thread of the new team, with a thread number of zero for the duration of the new parallel region. All threads in the new team, including the primary thread, execute the region. Once the team is formed, the number of threads in the team is region-invariant and, so, does not change for the duration of that parallel region.

Within a parallel region, thread numbers uniquely identify each thread. Thread numbers are consecutive non-negative integers ranging from zero for the primary thread up to one less than the number of threads in the team. A thread may obtain its own thread number by a call to the omp\_get\_thread\_num library routine.

A set of implicit tasks, equal in number to the number of threads in the team, is generated by the encountering thread. The structured block of the parallel construct determines the code that will be executed in each implicit task. Each task is assigned to a diferent thread in the team and becomes a tied. The task region of the task that the encountering thread is executing is suspended and each thread in the team executes its implicit task. Each thread can execute a path of statements that is diferent from that of the other threads.

The implementation may cause any thread to suspend execution of its implicit task at a task scheduling point, and to switch to execution of any explicit task generated by any of the threads in the team, before eventually resuming execution of the implicit task.

An implicit barrier occurs at the end of a parallel region. After the end of a parallel region, only the primary thread of the team resumes execution of the enclosing task region.

If a thread in a team that is executing a parallel region encounters another parallel directive, it forms a new team and becomes the primary thread of that new team.

If execution of a thread terminates while inside a parallel region, execution of all threads in all teams terminates. The order of termination of threads is unspecified. All work done by a team prior to any barrier that the team has passed in the program is guaranteed to be complete. The amount of work done by each thread after the last barrier that it passed and before it terminates is unspecified.

Unless a requires directive is specified on which the device\_safesync clause appears, if the parallel construct is encountered on a non-host device and the safesync clause is not present then the behavior is as if the safesync clause appears on the directive with a width value that is implementation defined.

## Execution Model Events

The parallel-begin event occurs in a thread that encounters a parallel construct before any implicit task is generated for the corresponding parallel region.

Upon generation of each implicit task, an implicit-task-begin event occurs in the thread that executes the implicit task after the implicit task is fully initialized but before the thread begins to execute the structured block of the parallel construct.

If a new native thread is created for the team that executes the parallel region upon encountering the construct, a native-thread-begin event occurs as the first event in the context of the new thread prior to the implicit-task-begin event.

Events associated with implicit barriers occur at the end of a parallel region. Section 17.3.2 describes events associated with implicit barriers.

When a thread completes an implicit task, an implicit-task-end event occurs in the thread after events associated with the implicit barrier synchronization in the implicit task.

The parallel-end event occurs in the thread that encounters the parallel construct after the thread executes its implicit-task-end event but before the thread resumes execution of the encountering task.

If a native thread is destroyed at the end of a parallel region, a native-thread-end event occurs in the worker thread that uses the native thread as the last event prior to destruction of the native thread.

## Tool Callbacks

A thread dispatches a registered parallel\_begin callback for each occurrence of a parallel-begin event in that thread. The callback occurs in the task that encounters the parallel construct. In the dispatched callback, (flags & ompt\_parallel\_team) evaluates to true.

A thread dispatches a registered implicit\_task callback with ompt\_scope\_begin as its endpoint argument for each occurrence of an implicit-task-begin event in that thread. Similarly, a thread dispatches a registered implicit\_task callback with ompt\_scope\_end as its endpoint argument for each occurrence of an implicit-task-end event in that thread. The callbacks occur in the context of the implicit task. In the dispatched callback,

(flags & ompt\_task\_implicit) evaluates to true.

A thread dispatches a registered parallel\_end callback for each occurrence of a parallel-end event in that thread. The callback occurs in the task that encounters the parallel construct.

A thread dispatches a registered thread\_begin callback for any native-thread-begin event in that thread. The callback occurs in the context of the thread.

A thread dispatches a registered thread\_end callback for any native-thread-end event in that thread. The callback occurs in the context of the thread.

## Cross References

• allocate Clause, see Section 8.6

• copyin Clause, see Section 7.8.1

• default Clause, see Section 7.5.1

• firstprivate Clause, see Section 7.5.4

• if Clause, see Section 5.5

• implicit\_task Callback, see Section 34.5.3

• message Clause, see Section 10.3

• num\_threads Clause, see Section 12.1.2

• omp\_get\_thread\_num Routine, see Section 21.3

• Determining the Number of Threads for a parallel Region, see Section 12.1.1

• parallel\_begin Callback, see Section 34.3.1

• parallel\_end Callback, see Section 34.3.2

• OMPT parallel\_flag Type, see Section 33.22

• private Clause, see Section 7.5.3

• proc\_bind Clause, see Section 12.1.4

• reduction Clause, see Section 7.6.10

```txt
Algorithm 12.1 Determine Number of Threads
let ThreadsBusy be the number of threads currently executing tasks in this contention group;
let StructuredThreadsBusy be the number of structured threads currently executing tasks in this contention group;
if an if clause is specified then let IfClauseValue be the value of if-expression;
else let IfClauseValue = true;
if a num_threads clause is specified then let ThreadsRequested be the value of the first item of the nthreads list;
else let ThreadsRequested = value of the first element of nthreads-var;
let ThreadsAvailable = min(thread-limit-var - ThreadsBusy,
                  structured-thread-limit-var - StructuredThreadsBusy) + 1;
if (IfClauseValue = false) then number of threads = 1;
else if (active-levels-var ≥ max-active-levels-var) then number of threads = 1;
else if (dyn-var = true) and (Thread所需要的 ≤ ThreadsAvailable)
    then 1 ≤ number of threads ≤ ThreadsRequested;
else if (dyn-var = true) and (Thread所需要的 > ThreadsAvailable)
    then 1 ≤ number of threads ≤ ThreadsAvailable;
else if (dyn-var = false) and (Thread所需要的 ≤ ThreadsAvailable)
    then number of threads = ThreadsRequested;
else if (dyn-var = false) and (Thread所需要的 > ThreadsAvailable)
    then behavior is implementation defined
```

• safesync Clause, see Section 12.1.5

• OMPT scope\_endpoint Type, see Section 33.27

• severity Clause, see Section 10.4

• shared Clause, see Section 7.5.2

• OMPT task\_flag Type, see Section 33.37

• thread\_begin Callback, see Section 34.1.3

• thread\_end Callback, see Section 34.1.4

## 12.1.1 Determining the Number of Threads for a parallel Region

When execution encounters a parallel directive, the value of the if clause or the first item of the nthreads list of the num\_threads clause (if any) on the directive, the current parallel context, and the values of the nthreads-var, dyn-var, thread-limit-var, and max-active-levels-var ICVs are used to determine the number of threads to use in the region. When a thread encounters a parallel construct, the number of threads is determined according to Algorithm 12.1.

Using a variable in an if-expression of an if clause or in an element of the nthreads list of a num\_threads clause of a parallel construct causes an implicit reference to the variable in all enclosing constructs. The if-expression and the nthreads list items are evaluated in the context outside of the parallel construct, and no ordering of those evaluations is specified. In what order or how many times any side efects of the evaluation of the nthreads list items or an if-expression occur is also unspecified.

## Cross References

• dyn-var ICV, see Table 3.1

• max-active-levels-var ICV, see Table 3.1

• nthreads-var ICV, see Table 3.1

• thread-limit-var ICV, see Table 3.1

• if Clause, see Section 5.5

• num\_threads Clause, see Section 12.1.2

• parallel Construct, see Section 12.1

Arguments  
12.1.2 num\_threads Clause

<table><tr><td>Name: num_threads</td><td>Properties: unique</td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>nthreads</td><td>list of OpenMP integer expression type</td><td>positive</td></tr></table>

Modifiers

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Modifies</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>prescriptiveness</td><td>nthreads</td><td>Keyword: strict</td><td>default</td></tr><tr><td>directive-name-modifier</td><td>all arguments</td><td>Keyword: directive-name (a directive name)</td><td>unique</td></tr></table>

## Directives parallel

## Semantics

The num\_threads clause specifies the desired number of threads to execute a parallel region. Algorithm 12.1 determines the number of threads that execute the parallel region. If prescriptiveness is specified as strict and an implementation determines that Algorithm 12.1 would always result in a number of threads other than the value of the first item of the nthreads list then compile-time error termination may be performed in which case the efect of any message clause associated with the directive is implementation defined. Otherwise, if prescriptiveness is specified as strict and Algorithm 12.1 would result in a number of threads other than the value of the first item of the nthreads list then runtime error termination is performed. In both error termination scenarios, the efect is as if an error directive has been encountered on which any specified message and severity clauses and an at clause with execution as action-time are specified.

## Cross References

• at Clause, see Section 10.2

• error Directive, see Section 10.1

• message Clause, see Section 10.3

• parallel Construct, see Section 12.1

## 12.1.3 Controlling OpenMP Thread Affinity

When a thread encounters a parallel directive without a proc\_bind clause, the bind-var ICV is used to determine the policy for assigning threads to places within the input place partition, as defined in the following paragraph. If the parallel directive has a proc\_bind clause then the thread afinity policy specified by the proc\_bind clause overrides the policy specified by the first element of the bind-var ICV. Once a thread in the team is assigned to a place, the OpenMP implementation should not move it to another place.

If the encountering thread is a free-agent thread that is executing an explicit task that was created in an implicit parallel region, the input place partition for all thread afinity policies is the value of the place-partition-var ICV of the initial task. If the encountering thread is a free-agent thread that is executing an explicit task that was created in an explicit parallel region, the input place partition for all thread afinity policies is the input place partition of that parallel region. If the encountering thread is not a free-agent thread, the input place partition for all thread afinity policies is the value of the place-partition-var ICV of its binding implicit task.

Under the primary and close thread afinity policies, the place-partition-var ICV of each implicit task is assigned the input place partition. As discussed below, under the spread thread afinity policy, the place-partition-var ICV of each implicit task is derived from the value of the input place partition.

TABLE 12.1: Afinity-related Symbols used in this Section

<table><tr><td>Symbol</td><td>Symbol Description</td></tr><tr><td>L</td><td>the value of the thread-limit-var ICV</td></tr><tr><td>NG</td><td>the total number of place-assignment groups</td></tr><tr><td>gi</td><td>the  $i^{th}$  place-assignment group</td></tr><tr><td>P</td><td>the number of places in the input place partition</td></tr><tr><td>T</td><td>the number of threads in the team</td></tr><tr><td>AT</td><td> $\lceil T/NG \rceil$  (&quot;above-thread&quot; count)</td></tr><tr><td>BT</td><td> $\lfloor T/NG \rfloor$  (&quot;below-thread&quot; count)</td></tr><tr><td>ET</td><td>T mod NG (&quot;excess-thread&quot; count)</td></tr></table>

The place-assignment-var ICV is a list of L place numbers, where L is the value of the thread-limit-var ICV, that defines the place assignment of threads that participate in the execution of tasks bound to a given team. Any such thread corresponds to a position in the list, meaning it will be assigned to the place given by the place number at that position. If a thread is an assigned thread of the team with thread number i, it corresponds to position i in the place-assignment-var list. If a thread is a free-agent thread, it corresponds to the first position for which another thread has not yet been assigned to the associated place. If another thread is already assigned to the place associated with that position, the place to which the free-agent thread is assigned is implementation defined.

Each thread afinity policy determines how threads are assigned to places. A policy assigns each place in the input place partition to one of N G place-assignment groups, g<sub>0</sub>, . . . , g<sub>NG−1</sub>; additionally, it assigns each position from the place-assignment-var ICV to one of these groups. In a given group, the place number of each place is then assigned to a place-assignment-var position, in round robin fashion, starting with the first place. Threads are thus assigned to places according to the resulting place-assignment-var of the policy.

Under the primary thread afinity policy, NG = 1 and place-assignment group g<sub>0</sub> is assigned the place to which the encountering thread is assigned, and all positions of place-assignment-var are assigned to the same group. Thus, the corresponding threads of all positions of the place-assignment-var ICV are assigned to the same place as the primary thread.

For the close and spread thread afinity policies, let P be the number of places in the input place partition and let T be the number of assigned threads in the team. The following paragraphs describe how places in the input place partition are subdivided into place-assignment groups for these policies. A general description of how positions in place-assignment-var are assigned to these places, and thus how place assignment for threads under the policies is determined, then

follows these descriptions.

The close thread afinity policy distributes assignment of places evenly across a team of threads, while ensuring threads with consecutive numbers are assigned to the same place or adjacent places. Each place in the input place partition is assigned to one place-assignment group $( \mathsf { s o } , N G = P )$ Place-assignment group $g _ { 0 }$ is assigned the place to which the encountering thread is assigned. The place assigned to group $g _ { i }$ is then the next place in the place partition of the one assigned to group $g _ { i - 1 }$ , with wrap around with respect to the input place partition.

The spread thread afinity policy creates a sparse distribution for a team of $T$ threads among the $P$ places of the input place partition. $\mathbf { A }$ sparse distribution is achieved by first subdividing the input place partition into $T$ subpartitions if $T \leq P$ (in which case $N G = T )$ , or $P$ subpartitions if $T > P$ (in which case $N G = P )$ . The subpartitions are determined as follows:

$T \leq P$ : The input place partition is split into $T$ subpartitions, where each subpartition contains $\lfloor P / T \rfloor$ or $\lceil P / T \rceil$ consecutive places; if $P m o d T$ is not zero, which subpartitions contain $\lceil P / T \rceil$ places is implementation defined;

$T > P ;$ The input place partition is split into P subpartitions, each with a single place.

In either case, the places from each subpartition are assigned to a place-assignment group that corresponds to the subpartition. The subpartition that corresponds to group $g _ { 0 }$ is the one that includes the place on which the encountering thread is executing. The subpartition that corresponds to group $g _ { i }$ is the one that includes the next place to those in the subpartition corresponding to group $g _ { i - 1 }$ , with wrap around with respect to the input place partition. For a given implicit task and corresponding place-assignment-var position to its assigned thread, the place-partition-var ICV of the implicit task is set to the subpartition that corresponds to the group that includes the position. Thus, the subpartitioning is not only a mechanism for achieving a sparse distribution, it also defines a subset of places for a thread to use when creating a nested parallel region.

Let $A T$ equal $\lceil T / N G \rceil$ , BT equal $\lfloor T / N G \rfloor$ , and $E T$ equal $T$ mod NG. The close and the spread thread afinity policies assign the positions of the place-assignment-var ICV to place-assignment groups as follows.

• For positions from 0 up to $T - 1$ : The positions are partitioned into $N G$ sets of consecutive positions, $E T$ of which have $A T$ positions and $N G - E T$ of which have only $B T$ positions (when $E T$ is not zero, which sets have which count is implementation defined unless the thread afinity policy is close and $T < P$ , in which case the first $T$ groups are assigned the sets with $A T$ positions). The sets are assigned to each group, with the first set, starting at position $0 ,$ assigned to group $g _ { 0 }$ , and with each successive set $i ,$ starting at the position immediately after the last position in the set assigned to group $g _ { i - 1 }$ , assigned to the next group $_ { g _ { i } ; }$

• If $E T \neq 0$ , for the positions from $T$ up to $\left( A T * N G \right) - 1 \colon$ Each of these positions is assigned to a group $g _ { i }$ that received only $B T$ positions in the above step, such that each such $g _ { i }$ is then assigned $A T$ positions (which positions are assigned to which group is implementation defined);

• For the remaining positions from AT ∗ NG up to L: Each position is assigned to a group in round robin fashion, starting with the first group g<sub>0</sub>.

The determination of whether the thread afinity request can be fulfilled is implementation defined. If it cannot be fulfilled, then the afinity of threads in the team is implementation defined.

Note – Wrap around is needed if the end of a place partition is reached before all thread assignments are done. For example, wrap around may be needed in the case of close and T ≤ P , if the primary thread is assigned to a place other than the first place in the place partition. In this case, thread 1 is assigned to the place after the place of the primary thread, thread 2 is assigned to the place after that, and so on. The end of the place partition may be reached before all threads are assigned. In this case, assignment of threads is resumed with the first place in the place partition.

## Cross References

• bind-var ICV, see Table 3.1

• place-assignment-var ICV, see Table 3.1

• place-partition-var ICV, see Table 3.1

• thread-limit-var ICV, see Table 3.1

• parallel Construct, see Section 12.1

• proc\_bind Clause, see Section 12.1.4

12.1.4 proc\_bind Clause

<table><tr><td>Name: proc_bind</td><td>Properties: unique</td></tr></table>

Arguments

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>affinity-policy</td><td>Keyword:close,primary,spread</td><td>default</td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Modifies</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>directive-name-modifier</td><td>all arguments</td><td>Keyword: directive-name (a directive name)</td><td>unique</td></tr></table>

## Directives

parallel

## Semantics

The proc\_bind clause specifies the mapping of threads to places within the input place partition. The efect of the possible values for afinity-policy are described in Section 12.1.3

## Cross References

• Controlling OpenMP Thread Afinity, see Section 12.1.3

• parallel Construct, see Section 12.1

## 12.1.5 safesync Clause

<table><tr><td>Name: safesync</td><td>Properties: unique</td></tr></table>

Arguments

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>width</td><td>expression of integer type</td><td>positive, optional</td></tr></table>

Modifiers

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Modifies</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>directive-name-modifier</td><td>all arguments</td><td>Keyword: directive-name (a directive name)</td><td>unique</td></tr></table>

## Directives

## parallel

## Semantics

The safesync clause determines whether two synchronizing threads in a team can make progress (see Section 1.2). The clause specifies that threads in the new team are partitioned, in thread number order, into progress groups of size width, except for the last progress group, which may contain less than width threads. Among threads that are executing tasks in the same contention group in parallel, only threads that are in the same progress group may execute in the same progress unit. If the width argument is not specified, the behavior is as if the width argument is one.

## Restrictions

Restrictions to the safesync clause are as follows:

• The width argument must be a safesync-compatible expression.

## Cross References

• parallel Construct, see Section 12.1
