
<table><tr><td>Name: taskgraphCategory: executable</td><td>Association: blockProperties: default</td></tr></table>

## Clauses

graph\_id, graph\_reset, if, nogroup

## Binding

The binding thread set of a taskgraph region is all threads on the current device. The binding task set of a taskgraph region is all tasks of the current team that are generated in the region.

## Semantics

When a thread encounters a taskgraph construct, a taskgraph region is generated for which execution entails one of the following:

• Execution of the structured block associated with the construct, while optionally creating a taskgraph record of all encountered replayable constructs and the sequence in which they are encountered; or

• A replay execution of the last matching taskgraph record of the construct.

If a taskloop construct is encountered in the taskgraph region, the behavior is as if each task that it generates is instead generated by a task construct. If a task-generating construct is encountered in the taskgraph construct as part of its corresponding region, then it is a replayable construct of the region unless otherwise specified by the replayable clause. If a depend clause with a depobj task-dependence-type is present on a replayable construct then for each listed depend object the behavior is as if a depend clause with the dependence type and locator list item represented by the depend object is instead present on the construct. Whether a task-generating construct that is encountered as part of the taskgraph region, but not in the taskgraph construct, is a replayable construct of the region is unspecified, unless the replayable clause is present on that construct. For the purposes of the taskgraph region, a taskwait construct on which the depend clause appears is a task-generating construct.

A taskgraph record contains a record of the following:

• The graph-id-value specified in the graph\_id clause upon encountering the construct;

• The sequence of encountered replayable constructs in the taskgraph region, along with their subsidiary directives; and

• For each replayable construct, a saved data environment.

A clause or modifier argument for a replayable construct is recorded after evaluating all expressions that compose the argument and substituting the resulting values for those expressions. Additionally, if a clause argument or a modifier argument specification requires a locator list item or a variable list item, then:

• For a locator list item of a taskgraph-altering clause, only the storage locations are recorded;

• Otherwise, the identifier that designates the base variable or base pointer of the list item is recorded along with any values that are needed to reconstruct the list item.

The saved data environment of each replayable construct in the taskgraph record includes copies of all variables that do not have static storage duration and that are firstprivate in the replayable construct, with values that are captured from the enclosing data environment when the construct is encountered. Additionally, it includes copies of all variables that have static storage duration and that appear in a firstprivate clause that has the saved modifier on the construct. Finally, it includes references to any other variables that have static storage duration, exist in the enclosing data environment of the replayable construct, and do not exist in the enclosing data environment of the taskgraph construct.

The taskgraph record becomes a finalized taskgraph record on exit from the taskgraph region in which it is created. An implementation may create a finalized taskgraph record prior to the first execution of the taskgraph region, if it can guarantee that the contents of the record would match the record that would have been created during an execution of the region. In this case, a replay execution of that taskgraph record may occur upon first encountering the taskgraph construct.

If the graph\_id clause is not present, an existing finalized taskgraph record that was generated for the construct when encountered on the same device is the matching taskgraph record. Otherwise, an existing finalized taskgraph record that was generated for the construct when encountered on the same device is the matching taskgraph record if the graph-id-value specified in the graph\_id clause matches the value in the graph\_id clause that was saved in the record.

Each finalized taskgraph record has an associated replay count that is initialized to zero. If the graph\_reset clause is not present or its argument evalutes to false, the encountering task of the taskgraph region is not a final task, and a matching taskgraph record exists, the matching taskgraph record is replayed and its replay count is incremented by one. A replay execution of a taskgraph record has the efect of encountering the recorded replayable constructs, with their recorded clause and modifier arguments unless otherwise specified, in their recorded sequence and implies all semantics defined for those constructs except as otherwise specified in this section. A replay execution does not entail execution of any code that is part of both the taskgraph region and the encountering task region. Any changes from when the matching taskgraph record was created to the arguments or modifiers of a taskgraph-altering clause that appears on a replayable construct does not alter the behavior of a replay execution of that taskgraph record. The replay count is decremented by one once all tasks that are generated by the replayable constructs have completed.

If completion of a taskgraph region results in a new finalized taskgraph record when a matching taskgraph record already exists, the behavior is as if the new record replaces the old record, with the old record being discarded once its replay count reaches zero.

When executing a replayable construct during a replay execution, unless otherwise specified by a saved modifier on a data-environment attribute clause, its enclosing data environment (inclusive of ICVs with data environment ICV scope) is the enclosing data environment of the taskgraph construct. If a variable does not exist in the enclosing data environment of the taskgraph

construct then the saved data environment in the taskgraph record is used as the enclosing data environment for that variable. If the replayable construct permits an ICV-defaulted clause and the clause is not present, in a replay execution of the construct the ICV in the enclosing data environment of the taskgraph construct determines the value of the clause argument.

If the if clause is present and its argument evaluates to false, execution of the taskgraph region will not create a taskgraph record or entail replaying a matching taskgraph record of the construct.

If the nogroup clause is not present, the taskgraph region executes as if enclosed by a taskgroup region.

Whether foreign tasks are recorded or not in a taskgraph record and the manner in which they are executed during a replay execution if they are recorded is implementation defined.

## Execution Model Events

Events for the implicit taskgroup region that surrounds the taskgraph region when no nogroup clause is specified are the same as for the taskgroup construct.

The events that occur during a replay execution of a taskgraph region is unspecified.

## Tool Callbacks

Callbacks associated with events for the taskgroup region are the same as for the taskgroup construct as defined in Section 17.4.

## Restrictions

Restrictions to the taskgraph construct are as follows:

• Task-generating constructs are the only constructs that may be encountered as part of the taskgraph region.

• A taskgraph construct must not be encountered in a final task region.

• A replayable construct that generates an importing or exporting transparent task, a detachable task, or an undeferred task must not be encountered in a taskgraph region.

• Any variable referenced in a replayable construct that does not have static storage duration and that does not exist in the enclosing data environment of the taskgraph construct must be a private-only or firstprivate variable in the replayable construct.

• A list item of a clause on a replayable construct that accepts a locator list and is not a taskgraph-altering clause must have a base variable or base pointer.

• Any variable that appears in an expression of a variable list item or locator list item for a clause on a replayable construct and does not designate the base variable or base pointer of that list item must be listed in a data-environment attribute clause with the saved modifier on that construct.

• If a construct that permits the nogroup clause is encountered in a taskgraph region then the nogroup clause must be specified with the do\_not\_synchronize argument evaluating to true.

## Cross References

• graph\_id Clause, see Section 14.3.1

• graph\_reset Clause, see Section 14.3.2

• if Clause, see Section 5.5

• nogroup Clause, see Section 17.7

• task Construct, see Section 14.1

• taskgroup Construct, see Section 17.4

## 14.3.1 graph\_id Clause

<table><tr><td>Name: graph_id</td><td>Properties: unique</td></tr></table>

## Arguments

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>graph-id-value</td><td>expression of OpenMP integer type</td><td>default</td></tr></table>

## Directives

taskgraph

## Semantics

The graph\_id clause specifies the graph-id-value that identifies a taskgraph record. At most, one matching taskgraph record exists for a given graph-id-value.

## Cross References

• taskgraph Construct, see Section 14.3

## 14.3.2 graph\_reset Clause

<table><tr><td>Name: graph_reset</td><td>Properties: unique</td></tr></table>

## Arguments

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>graph-reset-expression</td><td>expression of OpenMP logical type</td><td>default</td></tr></table>

## Directives

taskgraph

## Semantics

If graph-reset-expression evaluates to true, any existing matching taskgraph record is discarded if a replay of the record is not in progress (i.e., if its replay count equals zero). If the replay count is non-zero, the matching taskgraph record is not replayed and instead the structured block associated with the taskgraph construct is executed; in this case, the matching taskgraph record is discarded once its replay count reaches zero. If graph-reset-expression is not specified, the efect is as if graph-reset-expression evaluates to true.

## Cross References

• taskgraph Construct, see Section 14.3
