15.7 target\_data Construct

<table><tr><td>Name: target_dataCategory: executable</td><td>Association: blockProperties: device, device-affecting, data-mapping, map-entering, map-exiting, parallelism-generating, sharing-task, task-generating</td></tr></table>

## Clauses

affinity, allocate, default, depend, detach, device, firstprivate, if, in\_reduction, map, mergeable, nogroup, nowait, priority, private, shared, transparent, use\_device\_addr, use\_device\_ptr

## Clause set

data-environment-clause

<table><tr><td>Properties: required</td><td>Members: map, use_device_addr, use_device_ptr</td></tr></table>

## Additional information

The target\_data directive may alternatively be specified with target data as the directive-name.

## Binding

The binding task set for a target\_data region is the generating task. The target\_data region binds to the region of the generating task.

## Semantics

The target\_data construct is a composite directive that provides a superset of the functionality provided by the target\_enter\_data and target\_exit\_data directives. The functionality added by the target\_data directive is the inclusion of a task region for which data-sharing attributes may be specified. The efect of a target\_data directive is equivalent to that of specifying three constituent directives, as described in the following, except expressions in all clauses are evaluated when the target\_data construct is encountered.

The first constituent directive is a target\_enter\_data directive that is specified in the same code location as the target\_data directive. The second constituent directive is a task directive that is specified immediately after the target\_enter\_data directive and that is associated with the structured block associated with the target\_data directive. This task directive generates a sharing task. The third constituent directive is a target\_exit\_data directive that is specified immediately following the structured block that is associated with the target\_data directive.

Since each constituent directive is a task-generating construct, the target\_data directive generates three tasks. The task that is generated by the constituent target\_exit\_data directive is a dependent task of the task that is generated by the constituent task directive, which is a dependent task of the task that is generated by the constituent target\_enter\_data directive.

When an if clause is present on a target\_data construct, the efect is as if the clause is present only on the constituent data-mapping constructs.

When a nowait clause is present on a target\_data construct, the efect is as if the clause is present on the constituent data-mapping constructs. In addition, the task associated with the structured block may be deferred unless otherwise specified. If the nowait clause is not present, all tasks associated with the constituent directives are included tasks and, in addition, the task associated with the structured block is a merged task.

If the transparent clause is not specified then the efect is as if a transparent clause is specified such that impex-type evaluates to omp\_impex. If the mergeable clause is not specified then the efect is as if a mergeable clause is specified such that can\_merge evaluates to true.

When a map clause is present on a target\_data construct, the efect is as if the clause is present on the constituent data-mapping constructs with substituted map-type modifiers that are determined according to the rules of map-type decay.

A list item that appears in a map clause may also appear in a use\_device\_ptr clause or a use\_device\_addr clause. If one or more map clauses are present, the list item conversions that are performed for any use\_device\_ptr and use\_device\_addr clauses occur after all variables are mapped on entry to the region according to those map clauses.

If the nogroup clause is not present, the target\_data construct executes as if the structured block of the constituent task were enclosed in a taskgroup region. If the nogroup clause is present, no implicit taskgroup region is created.

## Execution Model Events

The events associated with entering a target\_data region are the same events as are associated with a target\_enter\_data construct, as described in Section 15.5, followed by the same events that are associated with a task construct, as described in Section 14.1.

The events associated with exiting a target\_data region are the same events as are associated with a target\_exit\_data construct, as described in Section 15.6.

## Tool Callbacks

The tool callbacks dispatched when entering a target\_data region are the same as the tool callbacks dispatched when encountering a target\_enter\_data construct, as described in Section 15.5, followed by the same tool callbacks that are dispatched when encountering a task construct, as described in Section 14.1.

The tool callbacks dispatched when exiting a target\_data region are the same as the tool callbacks dispatched when encountering a target\_exit\_data construct, as described in Section 15.6.

## Cross References

• affinity Clause, see Section 14.10

• allocate Clause, see Section 8.6

• default Clause, see Section 7.5.1

• depend Clause, see Section 17.9.5

• detach Clause, see Section 14.11

• device Clause, see Section 15.2

• firstprivate Clause, see Section 7.5.4

• if Clause, see Section 5.5

• in\_reduction Clause, see Section 7.6.12

• map Clause, see Section 7.9.6

• mergeable Clause, see Section 14.5

• nogroup Clause, see Section 17.7

• nowait Clause, see Section 17.6

• priority Clause, see Section 14.9

• private Clause, see Section 7.5.3

• shared Clause, see Section 7.5.2

• target\_enter\_data Construct, see Section 15.5

• target\_exit\_data Construct, see Section 15.6

• task Construct, see Section 14.1

• transparent Clause, see Section 17.9.6

• use\_device\_addr Clause, see Section 7.5.10

• use\_device\_ptr Clause, see Section 7.5.8

## 15.8 target Construct
