
<table><tr><td>Name: targetCategory:executable</td><td>Association: blockProperties: parallelism-generating, team-generating, thread-limiting, exception-aborting, task-generating, device, device-affecting, data-mapping, map-entering, map-exiting, context-matching</td></tr></table>

## Clauses

allocate, default, defaultmap, depend, device, device\_type, firstprivate, has\_device\_addr, if, in\_reduction, is\_device\_ptr, map, nowait, priority, private, replayable, thread\_limit, uses\_allocators

## Binding

The binding task set for a target region is the generating task, which is the target task generated by the target construct. The target region binds to the corresponding target task region.

## Semantics

The target construct generates a target task that encloses a target region to be executed on a device. If a depend clause is present, it is associated with the target task. The device and device\_type clauses determine the device on which to execute the target task region. If the nowait clause is present, execution of the target tasks may be deferred. If the nowait clause is not present, the target task is an included tasks. The efect of any map clauses occur on entry to and exit from the generated target region, as specified in Section 7.9.6.

All clauses are evaluated when the target construct is encountered. The data environment of the target task is created according to the data-sharing attribute clauses and data-mapping attribute clauses on the target construct, ICVs with data environment ICV scope, and any default data-sharing attribute rules that apply to the target construct. If a variable or part of a variable is mapped by the target construct and does not appear as a list item in an in\_reduction clause on the construct, the variable has a default data-sharing attribute of shared in the data environment of the target task. Assignment operations associated with mapping a variable (see Section 7.9.6) occur when the target task executes.

If the device clause is specified with the ancestor device-modifier, the encountering thread waits for completion of the target region on the parent device before resuming. For any list item that appears in a map clause on the same construct, if the corresponding list item exists in the device data environment of the parent device, it is treated as if it has a reference count of positive infinity.

When an if clause is present and if-expression evaluates to false, the efect is as if a device clause that specifies omp\_initial\_device as the device number is present, regardless of any other device clause on the directive.

If a procedure is explicitly or implicitly referenced in a target construct that does not specify a device clause in which the ancestor device-modifier appears then that procedure is treated as if its name had appeared in an enter clause on a declare target directive.

If a variable with static storage duration is declared in a target construct that does not specify a device clause in which the ancestor device-modifier appears then the named variable is treated as if it had appeared in an enter clause on a declare target directive if it is not a groupprivate variable and otherwise as if it had appeared in a local clause on a declare target directive.

If a list item in a map clause has a base pointer that is predetermined firstprivate or a base referencing variable for which the referring pointer is predetermined firstprivate (see Section 7.1.1), and on entry to the target region the list item is mapped, the firstprivate pointer is updated via corresponding pointer initialization.

## Fortran

When an internal procedure is called in a target region, any references to variables that are host associated in the procedure have unspecified behavior.

Fortran

## Execution Model Events

Events associated with a target task are the same as for the task construct defined in Section 14.1. Events associated with the initial task that executes the target region are defined in Section 14.13. The target-submit-begin event occurs prior to initiating creation of an initial task on a target device for a target region. The target-submit-end event occurs after initiating creation of an initial task on a target device for a target region. The target-begin event occurs after creation of the target task and completion of all predecessor tasks that are not target tasks for the same device. The target-begin event is a target-task-begin event. The target-end event occurs after the target-submit-begin, target-submit-end and target-begin events associated with the target construct and any events associated with map clauses on the construct. If the nowait clause is not present, the target-end event also occurs after all events associated with the target task and initial task but before the thread resumes execution of the encountering task.

## Tool Callbacks

Callbacks associated with events for target tasks are the same as for the task construct defined in Section 14.1; (flags & ompt\_task\_target) always evaluates to true in the dispatched callback.

A thread dispatches a registered target\_emi callback with ompt\_scope\_begin as its endpoint argument and ompt\_target or ompt\_target\_nowait if the nowait clause is present as its kind argument for each occurrence of a target-begin event in that thread in the context of the target task on the host device. Similarly, a thread dispatches a registered target\_emi callback with ompt\_scope\_end as its endpoint argument and ompt\_target or ompt\_target\_nowait if the nowait clause is present as its kind argument for each occurrence of a target-end event in that thread in the context of the target task on the host device.

A thread dispatches a registered target\_submit\_emi callback with ompt\_scope\_begin as its endpoint argument for each occurrence of a target-submit-begin event in that thread. Similarly, a thread dispatches a registered target\_submit\_emi callback with ompt\_scope\_end as its endpoint argument for each occurrence of a target-submit-end event in that thread. These callback occur in the context of the target task.

## Restrictions

Restrictions to the target construct are as follows:

• Device-afecting constructs, other than target constructs for which the ancestor device-modifier is specified, must not be encountered during execution of a target region.

• The result of an omp\_set\_default\_device, omp\_get\_default\_device, or omp\_get\_num\_devices routine called within a target region is unspecified.

• The efect of an access to a threadprivate variable in a target region is unspecified.

• If a list item in a map clause is a structure element, any other element of that structure that is referenced in the target construct must also appear as a list item in a map clause.

• A list item in a map clause that is specified on a target construct must have a base variable or base pointer.

• A list item in a data-sharing attribute clause that is specified on a target construct must not have the same base variable as a list item in a map clause on the construct.

• A variable referenced in a target region but not the target construct that is not declared in the target region must appear in a declare target directive.

• If a device clause is specified with the ancestor device-modifier, only the device, firstprivate, private, defaultmap, nowait, and map clauses may appear on the construct and no constructs or calls to routines are allowed inside the corresponding target region.

• If a device clause is specified with the ancestor device-modifier, whether a storage block on the encountering device that has no corresponding storage on the specified device may be mapped is implementation defined.

• Memory allocators that do not appear in a uses\_allocators clause cannot appear as an allocator in an allocate clause or be used in the target region unless a requires directive with the dynamic\_allocators clause is present in the same compilation unit.

• Any IEEE floating-point exception status flag, halting mode, or rounding mode set prior to a target region is unspecified in the region.

• Any IEEE floating-point exception status flag, halting mode, or rounding mode set in a target region is unspecified upon exiting the region.

• An OpenMP program must not rely on the value of a function address in a target region except for assignments, pointer association queries, and indirect calls.

C / C++

• Upon exit from a target region, the value of an attached pointer must not be diferent from the value when entering the region.

C / C++

C++

• The run-time type information (RTTI) of an object can only be accessed from the device on which it was constructed.

• Invoking a virtual member function of an object on a device other than the device on which the object was constructed results in unspecified behavior, unless the object is accessible and was constructed on the host device.

• If an object of polymorphic class type is destructed, virtual member functions of any previously existing corresponding objects in other device data environments must not be invoked.

C++

Fortran

• An attached pointer that is associated with a given pointer target must not be associated with a diferent pointer target upon exit from a target region.

• A reference to a coarray that is encountered on a non-host device must not be coindexed or appear as an actual argument to a procedure where the corresponding dummy argument is a coarray.

• If the allocation status of a mapped variable or a list item that appears in a has\_device\_addr clause that has the ALLOCATABLE attribute is unallocated on entry to a target region, the allocation status of the corresponding variable in the device data environment must be unallocated upon exiting the region.

• If the allocation status of a mapped variable or a list item that appears in a has\_device\_addr clause that has the ALLOCATABLE attribute is allocated on entry to a target region, the allocation status and shape of the corresponding variable in the device data environment may not be changed, either explicitly or implicitly, in the region after entry to it.

• If the association status of a list item with the POINTER attribute that appears in a map or has\_device\_addr clause on the construct is disassociated upon entry to the target region, the list item must be disassociated upon exit from the region.

• If the association status of a list item with the POINTER attribute that appears in a map or has\_device\_addr clause on the construct is associated upon entry to the target region, the list item must be associated with the same pointer target upon exit from the region.

• An OpenMP program must not rely on the association status of a procedure pointer in a target region except for calls to the ASSOCIATED inquiry function without the optional proc-target argument, pointer assignments and indirect calls.

Fortran

## Cross References

• allocate Clause, see Section 8.6

• default Clause, see Section 7.5.1

• defaultmap Clause, see Section 7.9.9

• depend Clause, see Section 17.9.5

• device Clause, see Section 15.2

• device\_type Clause, see Section 15.1

• firstprivate Clause, see Section 7.5.4

• has\_device\_addr Clause, see Section 7.5.9

• if Clause, see Section 5.5

• in\_reduction Clause, see Section 7.6.12

• is\_device\_ptr Clause, see Section 7.5.7

• map Clause, see Section 7.9.6

• nowait Clause, see Section 17.6

• priority Clause, see Section 14.9

• private Clause, see Section 7.5.3

• replayable Clause, see Section 14.6

• OMPT scope\_endpoint Type, see Section 33.27

• OMPT target Type, see Section 33.34

• target\_data Construct, see Section 15.7

• target\_emi Callback, see Section 35.8

• target\_submit\_emi Callback, see Section 35.10

• task Construct, see Section 14.1

• OMPT task\_flag Type, see Section 33.37

• thread\_limit Clause, see Section 15.3

• uses\_allocators Clause, see Section 8.8
