## 15.9 target\_update Construct

<table><tr><td>Name: target_updateCategory: executable</td><td>Association: unassociatedProperties: parallelism-generating, task-generating, device, device-affecting</td></tr></table>

## Clauses

depend, device, from, if, nowait, priority, replayable, to

## Clause set

<table><tr><td>Properties: required</td><td>Members: from, to</td></tr></table>

## Additional information

The target\_update directive may alternatively be specified with target update as the directive-name.

## Binding

The binding task set for a target\_update region is the generating task, which is the target task generated by the target\_update construct. The target\_update region binds to the corresponding target task region.

## Semantics

The target\_update directive makes the corresponding list items in the device data environment consistent with their original list items, according to the specified data-motion clauses. The target\_update construct generates a target task. The generated task region encloses the target\_update region. If a depend clause is present, it is associated with the target task. If the nowait clause is present, execution of the target task may be deferred. If the nowait clause is not present, the target task is an included task.

All clauses are evaluated when the target\_update construct is encountered. The data environment of the target task is created according to data-motion clauses on the target\_update construct, ICVs with data environment ICV scope, and any default data-sharing attribute rules that apply to the target\_update construct. If a variable or part of a variable is a list item in a data-motion clause on the target\_update construct, the variable has a default data-sharing attribute of shared in the data environment of the target task.

Assignment operations associated with any data-motion clauses occur when the target task executes. When an if clause is present and if-expression evaluates to false, no assignments occur.

## Execution Model Events

Events associated with a target task are the same as for the task construct defined in Section 14.1.

The target-update-begin event occurs after creation of the target task and completion of al predecessor tasks that are not target tasks for the same device. The target-update-end event occurs after all other events associated with the target\_update construct.

The target-data-op-begin event occurs in the target\_update region before a thread initiates a data operation on the target device. The target-data-op-end event occurs in the target\_update region after a thread initiates a data operation on the target device.

## Tool Callbacks

Callbacks associated with events for target tasks are the same as for the task construct defined in Section 14.1; (flags & ompt\_task\_target) always evaluates to true in the dispatched callback.

A thread dispatches a registered target\_emi callback with ompt\_scope\_begin as its endpoint argument and ompt\_target\_update or ompt\_target\_update\_nowait if the nowait clause is present as its kind argument for each occurrence of a target-update-begin event in that thread in the context of the target task on the host device. Similarly, a thread dispatches a registered target\_emi callback with ompt\_scope\_end as its endpoint argument and ompt\_target\_update or ompt\_target\_update\_nowait if the nowait clause is present as its kind argument for each occurrence of a target-update-end event in that thread in the context of the target task on the host device.

A thread dispatches a registered target\_data\_op\_emi callback with ompt\_scope\_begin as its endpoint argument for each occurrence of a target-data-op-begin event in that thread. Similarly, a thread dispatches a registered target\_data\_op\_emi callback with ompt\_scope\_end as its endpoint argument for each occurrence of a target-data-op-end event in that thread. These callbacks occur in the context of the target task.

## Cross References

• depend Clause, see Section 17.9.5

• device Clause, see Section 15.2

• from Clause, see Section 7.10.2

• if Clause, see Section 5.5

• nowait Clause, see Section 17.6

• priority Clause, see Section 14.9

• replayable Clause, see Section 14.6

• OMPT scope\_endpoint Type, see Section 33.27

• OMPT target Type, see Section 33.34

• target\_data\_op\_emi Callback, see Section 35.7

• target\_emi Callback, see Section 35.8

• task Construct, see Section 14.1

• OMPT task\_flag Type, see Section 33.37

• to Clause, see Section 7.10.1

## 16 Interoperability
