## 4.4 Memory Allocation Environment Variables

This section defines environment variables that afect memory allocations.

## 4.4.1 OMP\_ALLOCATOR

The OMP\_ALLOCATOR environment variable sets the initial value of the def-allocator-var ICV that specifies the default allocator for allocation calls, directives and clauses that do not specify an allocator. The following grammar describes the values accepted for the OMP\_ALLOCATOR environment variable.

⟨allocator⟩ |= ⟨predef-allocator⟩ | ⟨predef-mem-space⟩ | ⟨predef-mem-space⟩:⟨traits⟩

⟨traits⟩ |= ⟨trait⟩=⟨value⟩ | ⟨trait⟩=⟨value⟩,⟨traits⟩

⟨predef-allocator⟩ |= one of the predefined allocators from Table 8.3

⟨predef-mem-space⟩ |= one of the predefined memory spaces from Table 8.1

⟨trait⟩ |= one of the allocator trait names from Table 8.2

⟨value⟩ |= one of the allowed values from Table 8.2 | non-negative integer

| ⟨predef-allocator⟩

The value can be an integer only if the trait accepts a numerical value, for the fb\_data trait the value can only be predef-allocator. If the value of this environment variable is not a predefined allocator then a new allocator with the given predefined memory space and optional traits is created and set as the def-allocator-var ICV. If the new allocator cannot be created, the def-allocator-var ICV will be set to omp\_default\_mem\_alloc.

## Example:

```txt
export OMP_ALLOCATOR=omp_high_bw_mem_alloc
export OMP_ALLOCATOR="omp_large_cap_mem_space:alignment=16,\pinned=true"
export OMP_ALLOCATOR="omp_high_bw_mem_space:pool_size=1048576,\fallback=allocator_fb,fb_data=omp_low_lat_mem_alloc"
```

## Cross References

• Memory Allocators, see Section 8.2

• def-allocator-var ICV, see Table 3.1

## 4.5 OMPT Environment Variables

This section defines environment variables that afect operation of the OMPT tool interface.

## 4.5.1 OMP\_TOOL

The OMP\_TOOL environment variable sets the tool-var ICV, which controls whether an OpenMP runtime will try to register a first-party tool. The value of this environment variable must be one of the following:

## enabled | disabled

If OMP\_TOOL is set to any value other than enabled or disabled, the behavior is unspecified. If OMP\_TOOL is not defined, the default value for tool-var is enabled.

Example: export OMP\_TOOL=enabled

## Cross References

• OMPT Overview, see Chapter 32

• tool-var ICV, see Table 3.1

## 4.5.2 OMP\_TOOL\_LIBRARIES

The OMP\_TOOL\_LIBRARIES environment variable sets the tool-libraries-var ICV to a list of tool libraries that are considered for use on a device on which an OpenMP implementation is being initialized. The value of this environment variable must be a list of names of dynamically-loadable libraries, separated by an implementation specific, platform typical separator. Whether the value of this environment variable is case sensitive is implementation defined.

If the tool-var ICV is not enabled, the value of tool-libraries-var is ignored. Otherwise, if ompt\_start\_tool is not visible in the address space on a device where OpenMP is being initialized or if ompt\_start\_tool returns NULL, an OpenMP implementation will consider libraries in the tool-libraries-var list in a left-to-right order. The OpenMP implementation will search the list for a library that meets two criteria: it can be dynamically loaded on the current device and it defines the symbol ompt\_start\_tool. If an OpenMP implementation finds a suitable library, no further libraries in the list will be considered.

Example:

export OMP\_TOOL\_LIBRARIES=libtoolXY64.so:/usr/local/lib/ libtoolXY32.so

## Cross References

• OMPT Overview, see Chapter 32

• tool-libraries-var ICV, see Table 3.1

• ompt\_start\_tool Procedure, see Section 32.2.1

## 4.5.3 OMP\_TOOL\_VERBOSE\_INIT

The OMP\_TOOL\_VERBOSE\_INIT environment variable sets the tool-verbose-init-var ICV, which controls whether an OpenMP implementation will verbosely log the registration of a tool. The value of this environment variable must be one of the following:

```txt
disabled|stdout|stderr|<filename>
```

If OMP\_TOOL\_VERBOSE\_INIT is set to any value other than case insensitive disabled, stdout, or stderr, the value is interpreted as a filename and the OpenMP runtime will try to log to a file with prefix filename. If the value is interpreted as a filename, whether it is case sensitive is implementation defined. If opening the logfile fails, the output will be redirected to stderr. If OMP\_TOOL\_VERBOSE\_INIT is not defined, the default value for tool-verbose-init-var is disabled. Support for logging to stdout or stderr is implementation defined. Unless tool-verbose-init-var is disabled, the OpenMP runtime will log the steps of the tool activation process defined in Section 32.2.2 to a file with a name that is constructed using the provided filename prefix. The format and detail of the log is implementation defined. At a minimum, the log will contain one of the following:

• That the tool-var ICV is disabled;

• An indication that a tool was available in the address space at program launch; or

• The path name of each tool in OMP\_TOOL\_LIBRARIES that is considered for dynamic loading, whether dynamic loading was successful, and whether the ompt\_start\_tool procedure is found in the loaded library.

In addition, if an ompt\_start\_tool procedure is called the log will indicate whether or not the tool will use the OMPT interface.

## Example:

export OMP\_TOOL\_VERBOSE\_INIT=disabled export OMP\_TOOL\_VERBOSE\_INIT=STDERR export OMP\_TOOL\_VERBOSE\_INIT=ompt\_load.log

## Cross References

• OMPT Overview, see Chapter 32

• tool-verbose-init-var ICV, see Table 3.1

## 4.6 OMPD Environment Variables

This section defines environment variables that afect operation of the OMPD tool interface.

## 4.6.1 OMP\_DEBUG

The OMP\_DEBUG environment variable sets the debug-var ICV, which controls whether an OpenMP runtime collects information that an OMPD library may need to support a tool. The value of this environment variable must be one of the following:

## enabled | disabled

If OMP\_DEBUG is set to any value other than enabled or disabled then the behavior is implementation defined.

## Example:

export OMP\_DEBUG=enabled

## Cross References

• Enabling Runtime Support for OMPD, see Section 38.3.1

• OMPD Overview, see Chapter 38

• debug-var ICV, see Table 3.1

## 4.7 OMP\_DISPLAY\_ENV

The OMP\_DISPLAY\_ENV environment variable instructs the runtime to display the information as described in the omp\_display\_env routine section (Section 30.4). The value of the OMP\_DISPLAY\_ENV environment variable may be set to one of these values:

## true | false | verbose

If the environment variable is set to true, the efect is as if the omp\_display\_env routine is called with the verbose argument set to false at the beginning of the program. If the environment variable is set to verbose, the efect is as if the omp\_display\_env routine is called with the verbose argument set to true at the beginning of the program. If the environment variable is undefined or set to false, the runtime does not display any information. For all values of the environment variable other than true, false, and verbose, the displayed information is unspecified.

## Example:

## export OMP\_DISPLAY\_ENV=true

For the output of the above example, see Section 30.4.

## Cross References

• omp\_display\_env Routine, see Section 30.4

# 5 Directive and Construct Syntax

This chapter describes the syntax of directives and clauses and their association with base language code. Directives are specified with various base language mechanisms that allow compilers to ignore the directives and conditionally compiled code if support of the OpenMP API is not provided or enabled. A compliant implementation must provide an option or interface that ensures that underlying support of all directives and conditional compilation mechanisms is enabled. In the remainder of this document, the phrase OpenMP compilation is used to mean a compilation with these OpenMP features enabled.

## Restrictions

Restrictions on OpenMP programs include:

• Unless otherwise specified, a program must not depend on any ordering of the evaluations of the expressions that appear in the clauses specified on a directive.

• Unless otherwise specified, a program must not depend on any side efects of the evaluations of the expressions that appear in the clauses specified on a directive.

C / C++

• The use of omp as the first preprocessing token of a pragma directive must be for OpenMP directives that are defined in this specification; OpenMP reserves these uses for OpenMP directives.

• The use of omp as the attribute namespace of an attribute specifier, or as the optional namespace qualifier within a sequence attribute, must be for OpenMP directives that are defined in this specification; OpenMP reserves these uses for such directives.

• The use of ompx as the first preprocessing token of a pragma directive must be for implementation defined extensions to the OpenMP directives; OpenMP reserves these uses for such extensions.

• The use of ompx as the attribute namespace of an attribute specifier, or as the optional namespace qualifier within a sequence attribute, must be for implementation defined extensions to the OpenMP directives; OpenMP reserves these uses for such extensions.

C / C++

Fortran

• In free form source files, the !\$omp sentinel must be used for OpenMP directives that are defined in this specification; OpenMP reserves these uses for such directives.

• In fixed form source files, sentinels that end with omp must be used for OpenMP directives that are defined in this specification; OpenMP reserves these uses for such directives.

• In free form source files, the !\$ompx sentinel must be used for implementation defined extensions to the OpenMP directives; OpenMP reserves these uses for such extensions.

• In fixed form source files, sentinels that end with omx must be used for implementation defined extensions to the OpenMP directives; OpenMP reserves these uses for such extensions.

## Fortran

• A clause name must be the name of a clause that is defined in this specification except for those that begin with ompx\_, which may be used for implementation defined extensions and which OpenMP reserves for such extensions.

• OpenMP reserves names that begin with the omp\_, ompt\_ and ompd\_ prefixes for names defined in this specification so OpenMP programs must not declare names that begin with them.

• OpenMP reserves names that begin with the ompx\_ prefix for implementation defined extensions so OpenMP programs must not declare names that begin with it.

C++

• OpenMP programs must not declare a namespace with the omp, ompx, ompt or ompd names, as these are reserved for the OpenMP implementation.

C++

Restrictions on explicit regions (that arise from executable directives) are as follows:

C++

• A throw executed inside a region that arises from a thread-limiting construct must cause execution to resume within the same region, and the same thread that threw the exception must catch it. If the directive also has the exception-aborting property then whether the exception is caught or the throw results in runtime error termination is implementation defined.

C++

Fortran

• A directive may not appear in a pure or simple procedure unless it has the pure property.

• A directive may not appear in a WHERE or FORALL construct.

• A directive may not appear in a DO CONCURRENT construct unless it has the pure property.

• If more than one image is executing the program, any image control statement, ERROR STOP statement, FAIL IMAGE statement, NOTIFY WAIT statement, collective subroutine call or access to a coindexed object that appears in an explicit region will result in unspecified behavior.

Fortran

## 5.1 Directive Format

This section defines several categories of directives and constructs. Directives are specified with a directive specification. A directive specification consists of the directive specifier and any clauses that may optionally be associated with the directive, Thus, the directive-specifation is:

directive-specifier [[,] clause[ [,] clause] ... ]

where the directive-specifier is:

directive-name

or for argument-modified directives:

directive-name[(directive-arguments)]

where directive-name is the directive name of the directive.

Some directives specify a paired end directive. If the directive-name of such a directive starts with begin, the end directive has the same directive name except begin is replaced with end. If the directive-name does not start with begin, unless otherwise specified the directive name of the end directive is end directive-name.

Some directives have underscores in their directive-name. Some of those directives are explicitly specified alternatively to allow the underscores in their directive-name to be replaced with white space. In addition, if a directive-name starts with either begin or end then it is separated from the rest of the directive-name by white space.

The directive-specification of a paired end directive may include one or more optional end-clause:

directive-specifier [[,] end-clause[ [,] end-clause]...]

where end-clause has the end-clause property, which explicitly allows it on a paired end directive.

C / C++

A directive may be specified as a pragma directive:

#pragma omp directive-specification new-line

or a pragma operator:

\_Pragma("omp directive-specification")

Note – In this directive, directive-name is depobj, directive-arguments is o. directive-specifier is depobj(o) and directive-specification is depobj(o) depend(inout: d).

#pragma omp depobj(o) depend(inout: d)

White space can be used before and after the #. Preprocessing tokens in a directive-specification of #pragma and \_Pragma pragmas are subject to macro expansion.

In C23 and later versions or C++11 and later versions, a directive may be specified as a C/C++ attribute specifier:

```jsonl
[[ omp :: directive-attr ]]
```

C++

or

[[ using omp : directive-attr ]]

C++

where directive-attr is

```txt
directive( directive-specification )
```

sequence( [omp::]directive-attr [[, [omp::]directive-attr] ... ] )

Multiple attributes on the same statement are allowed. Attribute directives that apply to the same statement are unordered unless the sequence attribute is specified, in which case the right-to-left ordering applies. The omp:: namespace qualifier within a sequence attribute is optional. The application of multiple attributes in a sequence attribute is ordered as if each directive had been specified as a pragma directive on subsequent lines. The directive attribute must not be specified inside a sequence attribute unless it specifies a block-associated directive.

Note – This example shows the expected transformation:

```txt
[[ omp::sequence(directive(parallel), directive(for)) ]]
for(...) {}
// becomes
#pragma omp parallel
#pragma omp for
for(...) {}
```

The pragma and attribute forms are interchangeable for any directive. Some directives may be composed of consecutive attribute specifiers if specified in their syntax. Any two consecutive attribute specifiers may be reordered or expressed as a single attribute specifier, as permitted by the base language, without changing the behavior of the directive.

Directives are case-sensitive. Each expression used in the OpenMP syntax inside of a clause must be a valid assignment-expression of the base language unless otherwise specified.

C / C++

C++

Directives may not appear in constexpr functions or in constant expressions.

C++

## Fortran

A directive for Fortran is specified with a stylized comment as follows:

sentinel directive-specification

All directives must begin with a directive sentinel. The format of a sentinel difers between fixed form and free form source files, as described in Section 5.1.1 and Section 5.1.2. In order to simplify the presentation, free form is used for the syntax of directives for Fortran throughout this document, except as noted.

Directives are case insensitive. Directives cannot be embedded within continued statements, and statements cannot be embedded within directives. Each expression used in the OpenMP syntax inside of a clause must be a valid expression of the base language unless otherwise specified.

Fortran

A directive may be categorized as one of the following:

• declarative directive;

• executable directive;

• informational directive;

• metadirective;

• subsidiary directive; or

• utility directive.

Base language code can be associated with directives. A directive may be categorized by its base language code association as one of the following:

• block-associated directive;

• declaration-associated directive;

• delimited directive;

• explicitly associated directive;

• loop-nest-associated directive;

• loop-sequence-associated directive;

• separating directive; or

• unassociated directive.

A directive and its associated base language code (if any) constitute a syntactic formation that follows the syntax given below unless otherwise specified. The end-directive in a specified formation refers to the paired end directive for the directive. A construct is a formation for an executable directive. An end directive is considered a subsidiary directive of a construct if it is the end directive of that construct.

Unassociated directives are not directly associated with any base language code. The resulting formation therefore has the following syntax:

## directive

Unassociated directives that are declarative directives declare identifiers for use in other directives. Unassociated directives that are executable directives are stand-alone directives.

Explicitly associated directives are declarative directives that take a variable or extended list as a directive or clause argument that indicates the declarations with which the directive is associated. As a result, explicitly associated directives have the same syntax as the formation for unassociated directives.

Formations that result from a block-associated directive have the following syntax:

directive

C / C++

structured-block

C / C++

Fortran

directive

structured-block

[end-directive]

If structured-block is a loosely structured block, end-directive is required, unless otherwise specified. If structured-block is a strictly structured block, end-directive is optional. An end-directive that immediately follows a directive and its associated strictly structured block is always paired with that directive.

Fortran

Loop-nest-associated directives are block-associated directives for which the associated structured-block is loop-nest, a canonical loop nest. Loop-sequence-associated directives are block-associated directives for which the associated structured-block is canonical-loop-sequence, a canonical loop sequence.

Fortran

The associated structured block of a block-associated directive can be a DO CONCURRENT loop where it is explicitly allowed.

For a loop-nest-associated directive, the paired end directive is optional.

Fortran

A declaration-associated directive is directly associated with a base language declaration.

C / C++

Formations that result from a declaration-associated directive have the following syntax:

declaration-associated-specification

where declaration-associated-specification is either:

directive function-definition-or-declaration

or:

directive declaration-associated-specification

In all cases the directive is associated with the function-definition-or-declaration.

C / C++

Fortran

The formation that results from a declaration-associated directive in Fortran has the same syntax as the formation for an unassociated directive as the associated declaration is determined directly from the specification part in which the directive appears.

Fortran

Fortran / C++

If a directive appears in the specification part of a module then the behavior is as if that directive, with the variables, types and procedures that have PRIVATE accessibility omitted, appears in the specification part of any compilation unit that references the module unless otherwise specified.

Fortran / C++

The formation that results from a delimited directive has the following syntax:

directive

base-language-code

end-directive

Separating directives are used to split statements contained in the associated structured block of a block-associated directive (the separated construct) into multiple structured block sequences. If the separated construct is a loop-nest-associated construct then any separating directives divide the loop body of the innermost afected loop into structured block sequences. Otherwise, the separating directives divide the associated structured block into structured block sequences.

Separating directives and the containing structured block have the following syntax:

structured-block-sequence

directive

structured-block-sequence

[directive

structured-block-sequence ...]

wrapped in a single compound statement for C/C++ or optionally wrapped in a single BLOCK construct for Fortran.

Formations that result from directives that are specified as attribute specifiers that use the directive attribute are specified as follows. If the directive is an unassociated directive, the resulting formation is an attribute-declaration if the directive is not executable and it consists of the attribute specifier and a null statement (i.e., “;”) if the directive is an executable directive. For a block-associated directive, the resulting formation consists of the attribute specifier and a structured block to which the specifier applies. If the directives are separating directives or delimited directives then the resulting formation is as specified above for those associations except that the attribute specifier for each directive, including the end directive, applies to a null statement.

A declarative directive that is a declaration-associated directive may alternatively be expressed as an attribute specifier:

[[ omp :: decl( directive-specification ) ]]

C++

or

[[ using omp : decl( directive-specification ) ]]

C++

An explicitly associated directive may alternatively be expressed with an attribute specifier that also uses the decl attribute, applies to a variable and/or function declaration, and omits the variable list or extended list argument. The efect is as if the omitted list argument is the list of declared variables and/or functions to which the attribute specifier applies.

Formations that result from directives that are specified as attribute specifiers and are declaration-associated directives or use the decl attribute are specified as follows. If the directives are declaration-associated directives then the resulting formation consists of the attribute specifiers and the function-definition-or-declaration to which the specifiers apply. If the directive uses the decl attribute then the resulting formation consists of the attribute specifier and the variable and/or function declarations to which the specifier applies.

C / C++

Restrictions

Restrictions to directive format are as follows:

C / C++

• A directive-name must not include white space except where explicitly allowed.

C / C++

• Orphaned separating directives are prohibited. That is, the separating directives must appear within the structured block associated with the same construct with which it is associated and must not be encountered elsewhere in the region of that separated construct.

• A stand-alone directive may be placed only at a point where a base language executable statement is allowed.

Fortran

• A declarative directive must be specified in the specification part after all USE, IMPORT and IMPLICIT statements.

Fortran

C / C++

• A directive that uses the attribute syntax cannot be applied to the same statement or associated declaration as a directive that uses the pragma syntax.

• For any directive that has a paired end directive, both directives must use either the attribute syntax or the pragma syntax.

• The directive and subsidiary directives of a construct must all use the attribute syntax or must all use the pragma syntax.

• Neither a stand-alone directive nor a declarative directive may be used in place of a substatement in a selection statement or iteration statement, or in place of the statement that follows a label.

• If a declarative directive applies to a function declaration or definition and it is specified with one or more C or C++ attribute specifiers, the specified attributes must be applied to the function as permitted by the base language.

C / C++

Fortran
