## 7.8.2 copyprivate Clause

<table><tr><td>Name: copyprivate</td><td>Properties: innermost-leaf, end-clause, data copying</td></tr></table>

## Arguments

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>list</td><td>list of variable list item type</td><td>default</td></tr></table>

## Modifiers

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Modifies</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>directive-name-modifier</td><td>all arguments</td><td>Keyword: directive-name (a directive name)</td><td>unique</td></tr></table>

## Directives

single

## Semantics

The copyprivate clause provides a mechanism to use a private variable to broadcast a value from the data environment of one implicit task to the data environments of the other implicit tasks that belong to the innermost enclosing parallel region. The efect of the copyprivate clause on the specified list items occurs after the execution of the structured block associated with the construct on which the clause is specified, and before any of the threads in the team have left the barrier at the end of the construct. To avoid data races, concurrent reads or updates of the list item must be synchronized with the update of the list item that occurs as a result of the copyprivate clause if, for example, the nowait clause is used to remove the barrier.

C / C++

In all other implicit tasks that belong to the parallel region, each specified list item becomes defined with the value of the corresponding list item in the implicit task associated with the thread that executed the structured block. For variables of non-array type, the definition occurs by copy assignment. For an array of elements of non-array type, each element is copied by copy assignment from an element of the array in the data environment of the implicit task that is associated with the thread that executed the structured block to the corresponding element of the array in the data environment of the other implicit tasks.

C / C++

C++

For class types, a copy assignment operator is invoked. The order in which copy assignment operators for diferent variables of class type are called is unspecified.

C++

Fortran

If a list item does not have the POINTER attribute then, in all other implicit tasks that belong to the parallel region, the list item becomes defined as if by intrinsic assignment with the value of the corresponding list item in the implicit task that is associated with the thread that executed the structured block. If the list item has a type bound procedure as a defined assignment, the assignment is performed by the defined assignment.

If the list item has the POINTER attribute then, in all other implicit tasks that belong to the parallel region, the list item receives, as if by pointer assignment, the same association status as the corresponding list item in the implicit task that is associated with the thread that executed the structured block.

The order in which any final subroutines for diferent variables of a finalizable type are called is unspecified.

## Fortran

## Restrictions

Restrictions to the copyprivate clause are as follows:

• All list items that appear in a copyprivate clause must be either threadprivate or private in the enclosing context.

C++

• A variable of class type (or array thereof) that appears in a copyprivate clause requires an accessible unambiguous copy assignment operator for the class type.

C++

Fortran

• A common block that appears in a copyprivate clause must be threadprivate.

• Pointers with the INTENT(IN) attribute must not appear in a copyprivate clause.

• Any list item with the ALLOCATABLE attribute must have the allocation status of allocated when the intrinsic assignment is performed.

Fortran

## Cross References

• List Item Privatization, see Section 7.4

• single Construct, see Section 13.1

• threadprivate Directive, see Section 7.3

## 7.9 Data-Mapping Control

This section describes the available mechanisms for controlling how data are mapped to device data environments. It covers implicitly determined data-mapping attribute rules for variables referenced in target constructs, clauses that support explicitly determined data-mapping attributes, and clauses for mapping variables with static storage duration and making procedures available on other devices. It also describes how mappers may be defined and referenced to control the mapping of data with user-defined types. When storage is mapped, the programmer must ensure, by adding proper synchronization or by explicit unmapping, that the storage does not reach the end of its lifetime before it is unmapped.

## 7.9.1 map-type Modifier

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Modifies</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>map-type</td><td>all arguments</td><td>Keyword: from, storage, to, tofrom</td><td>default</td></tr></table>

## Clauses

map

## Additional information

The value alloc may be used on map-entering constructs and the value release may be used on map-exiting constructs with identical meaning to the value storage.

## Semantics

The map-type modifier determines the type of mapping operations that are performed as a result of the clause on which it appears. All mapping operations update the reference count of corresponding storage in a device data environment, which may entail creation or removal of that storage. The storage map-type never includes an assignment operation. If the map-type is to, from, or tofrom, the map-type is an assigning map type and may include an assignment operation to or from the target device.

The map-type is a map-entering map type if it is to, tofrom, or storage. The map-type is a map-exiting map type if it is from, tofrom, or storage. If the map-type is a map-entering map type, the clause on which the map-type appears is a map-entering clause. If the map-type is a map-exiting map type, the clause on which the map-type appears is a map-exiting clause.

When a map-type is not specified for a clause on which it may be specified, the map-type defaults to storage if the delete-modifier is present on the clause or if the list item for which the map-type is not specified is an assumed-size array. Otherwise, the map-type defaults to tofrom if a map-type is not specified for a clause on which it may be specified, unless otherwise specified.

Fortran

When a map-type is not specified for a clause on which it may be specified, the map-type defaults to storage if the list item for which the map-type is not specified is an assumed-type variable.

Fortran

## Restrictions

Restrictions to the map-type modifier are as follows:

• If the clause on which the map-type appears is specified on a construct that is map-entering but not map-exiting, the map-type must be map-entering.

• If the clause on which the map-type appears is specified on a construct that is map-exiting but not map-entering, the map-type must be map-exiting.

## Cross References

• map Clause, see Section 7.9.6

## 7.9.2 Map Type Decay

Map-type decay is a process that derives an output map type from a given input map type according to an underlying map type. This process is defined by Table 7.5, where the output map type is shown at the row and column that corresponds to the underlying map type and input map type, respectively. When map-type decay determines the map-type modifier to apply for a map clause on a data-mapping constituent directive of a composite construct, the input map type is given by the map-type modifier specified by the map clause on the composite construct and the underlying map type is respectively to or from for a map-entering constituent directive or a map-exiting constituent directive. When map-type decay is applied by an invoked mapper, the underlying map type is given by the map-type modifier of the map clause specified by the mapper and the input map type is given by the map-type modifier of the map clause that invokes the mapper.

TABLE 7.5: Map-Type Decay of Map Type Combinations

<table><tr><td></td><td>storage</td><td>to</td><td>from</td><td>tofrom</td></tr><tr><td>storage to from tofrom</td><td>storage storage storage storage</td><td>storage to storage to</td><td>storage storage from from</td><td>storage to from tofrom</td></tr></table>

## 7.9.3 Implicit Data-Mapping Attribute Rules

When specified, data-mapping attribute clauses on target directives determine the data-mapping attributes for variables referenced in a target construct. Otherwise, the first matching rule from the following list determines the implicitly determined data-mapping attribute (or implicitly determined data-sharing attribute) for variables referenced in a target construct that do not have a predetermined data-sharing attribute according to Section 7.1.1. References to structure elements or array elements are treated as references to the structure or array, respectively, for the purposes of implicitly determined data-mapping attributes or implicitly determined data-sharing attributes of variables referenced in a target construct.

• If a variable appears in an enter or link clause on a declare target directive that does not have a device\_type clause with the nohost device-type-description then it is treated as if it had appeared in a map clause with a map-type of tofrom.

• If a variable is the base variable of a list item in a reduction, lastprivate or linear clause on a compound target construct then the list item is treated as if it had appeared in a map clause with a map-type of tofrom if Section 19.2 specifies this behavior.

• If a variable is the base variable of a list item in an in\_reduction clause on a target construct then it is treated as if the list item had appeared in a map clause with a map-type of tofrom and an always-modifier.

• If a defaultmap clause is present for the category of the variable and specifies an implicit behavior other than default, the data-mapping attribute or data-sharing attribute is determined by that clause.

• If the target construct is within a class non-static member function, and a variable is an accessible data member of the object for which the non-static member function is invoked, the variable is treated as if the this[:1] expression had appeared in a map clause with a map-type of tofrom. Additionally, if the variable is of type pointer or reference to pointer, it is also treated as if it is the array base of a zero-ofset assumed-size array that appears in a map clause with the storage map-type.

• If the this keyword is referenced inside a target construct within a class non-static member function, it is treated as if the this[:1] expression had appeared in a map clause with a map-type of tofrom.

C++

C / C++

• A variable that is of type pointer, but is neither a pointer to function nor (for C++) a pointer to a member function, is treated as if it is the array base of a zero-ofset assumed-size array that appears in a map clause with the storage map-type.

C / C++

C++

• A variable that is of type reference to pointer, but is neither a reference to pointer to function nor a reference to a pointer to a member function, is treated as if it is the array base of a zero-ofset assumed-size array that appears in a map clause with the storage map-type.

C++

Fortran

• If a compound target construct is associated with a DO CONCURRENT loop, a variable that has REDUCE or SHARED locality in the loop is treated as if it had appeared in a map clause with a map-type of tofrom.

Fortran

• If a variable is not a scalar variable then it is treated as if it had appeared in a map clause with a map-type of tofrom.

## Fortran

• If a scalar variable has the TARGET, ALLOCATABLE or POINTER attribute then it is treated as if it had appeared in a map clause with a map-type of tofrom.

• If a variable is an assumed-type variable then it is treated as if it had appeared in a map clause with a map-type of storage.

• A procedure pointer is treated as if it had appeared in a firstprivate clause.

Fortran

• If the above rules do not apply then a scalar variable is not mapped but instead has an implicitly determined data-sharing attribute of firstprivate (see Section 7.1.1).

## 7.9.4 Mapper Identifiers and mapper Modifiers

## Modifiers

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Modifies</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>mapper</td><td>locator-list</td><td>Complex, name: mapperArguments:mapper-identifier OpenMPidentifier (default)</td><td>unique</td></tr></table>

## Clauses

from, map, to

## Semantics

Mapper identifiers can be used to identify uniquely the mapper used in a map or data-motion clause through a mapper modifier, which is a unique, complex modifier. A declare\_mapper directive defines a mapper identifier that can later be specified in a mapper modifier as its modifier-parameter-specification. Each mapper identifier is a base language identifier or default where default is the default mapper for all types.

A non-structure type T has a predefined default mapper that is defined as if by the following declare\_mapper directive:

C / C++

#pragma omp declare\_mapper(T v) map(tofrom: v)

C / C++

Fortran

!\$omp declare\_mapper(T :: v) map(tofrom: v)

## Fortran

A structure type T has a predefined default mapper that is defined as if by a declare\_mapper directive that specifies v in a map clause with the storage map-type and each structure element of v in a map clause with the tofrom map-type.

A declare\_mapper directive that uses the default mapper identifier overrides the predefined default mapper for the given type, making it the default mapper for variables of that type.

## Cross References

• declare\_mapper Directive, see Section 7.9.10

• from Clause, see Section 7.10.2

• Data-Motion Clauses, see Section 7.10

• map Clause, see Section 7.9.6

• to Clause, see Section 7.10.1

## 7.9.5 ref-modifier Modifier

## Modifiers

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Modifies</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>ref-modifier</td><td>all arguments</td><td>Keyword: ref_ptee, ref_ptr, ref_ptr_ptee</td><td>unique</td></tr></table>

## Clauses

map

## Semantics

The ref-modifier for a given clause indicates how to interpret the identity of a list item argument of that clause. If the ref\_ptr or ref\_ptr\_ptee ref-modifier is specified, the semantics of the clause apply to the referring pointer of the referencing variable. If the ref\_ptee or ref\_ptr\_ptee ref-modifier is specified and a referenced pointee of the referencing variable exists, the semantics of the clause apply to the referenced pointee.

## Restrictions

Restrictions to the ref-modifier are as follows:

• A list item that appears in a clause with the ref-modifier must be a referencing variable.

C / C++

• A list item that appears in a clause for which the ref-modifier is specified must have a containing structure.

C / C++

## Cross References

• map Clause, see Section 7.9.6

## 7.9.6 map Clause

<table><tr><td>Name: map</td><td>Properties: data-environment attribute, data-mapping attribute</td></tr></table>

## Arguments

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>locator-list</td><td>list of locator list item type</td><td>default</td></tr></table>

Modifiers

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Modifies</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>always-modifier</td><td>locator-list</td><td>Keyword: always</td><td>map-type-modifying</td></tr><tr><td>close-modifier</td><td>locator-list</td><td>Keyword: close</td><td>map-type-modifying</td></tr><tr><td>present-modifier</td><td>locator-list</td><td>Keyword: present</td><td>map-type-modifying</td></tr><tr><td>self-modifier</td><td>locator-list</td><td>Keyword: self</td><td>map-type-modifying</td></tr><tr><td>ref-modifier</td><td>all arguments</td><td>Keyword: ref_ptee, ref_ptr, ref_ptr_ptee</td><td>unique</td></tr><tr><td>delete-modifier</td><td>locator-list</td><td>Keyword: delete</td><td>map-type-modifying</td></tr><tr><td>mapper</td><td>locator-list</td><td>Complex, name: mapperArguments:mapper-identifier OpenMPidentifier (default)</td><td>unique</td></tr><tr><td>iterator</td><td>locator-list</td><td>Complex, name: iteratorArguments:iterator-specifier list of iterator specifier list item type (default)</td><td>unique</td></tr><tr><td>map-type</td><td>all arguments</td><td>Keyword: from, storage, to, tofrom</td><td>default</td></tr><tr><td>directive-name-modifier</td><td>all arguments</td><td>Keyword: directive-name (a directive name)</td><td>unique</td></tr></table>

## Directives

declare\_mapper, target, target\_data, target\_enter\_data, target\_exit\_data

## Semantics

The map clause specifies how an original list item is mapped from the data environment of the current task to a corresponding list item in the device data environment of the device identified by the construct. The list items that appear on a map clause may include array sections, assumed-size arrays, and structure elements. A list item in a map clause may reference any iterator-identifier defined in its iterator modifier. A list item may appear more than once in the map clauses that are specified on the same directive.

## C / C++

If a list item is a zero-length array section that has a single array subscript, the behavior is as if the list item is an assumed-size array that is instead mapped with the storage map-type.

When a list item in a map clause that is not an assumed-size array is mapped on a map-entering construct and corresponding storage is created in the device data environment on entry to the region, the list item becomes a matchable candidate with an associated starting address, ending address, and base address that define its mapped address range and extended address range. The current set of matchable candidates consists of any map clause list item on the construct that is a matchable candidate and all matchable candidates that were previously mapped and are still mapped.

A list item in a map clause that is an assumed-size array is treated as if an array section, with an array base, lower bound and length determined as follows, is substituted in its place if a matched candidate is found. If the assumed-size array is an array section, the array base of the substitute array section is the same as for the assumed-size array; otherwise, the array base is the assumed-size array. If the mapped address range of a matchable candidate includes the first storage location of the assumed-size array, it is a matched candidate. If a matchable candidate does not exist for which the mapped address range includes the first storage location of the assumed-size array then a matchable candidate is a matched candidate if its extended address range includes the first storage location of the assumed-size array. If multiple matched candidates exist, an arbitrary one of them is the found matched candidate. The lower bound and length of the substitute array section are set such that its storage is identical to the storage of the found matched candidate. If a matched candidate is not found then a substitute array section is not formed and no further actions that are described in this section are performed for the list item.

## Fortran

The list items may include assumed-type variables and procedure pointers.

If a list item in a map clause is an assumed-type variable for which the storage location is included in the mapped address range of a matchable candidate, the list item is treated as if it refers to the storage of that matchable candidate. Otherwise, no further actions that are described in this section are performed for the list item.

## Fortran

If a list item is an array or array section, the array elements become implicit list items with the same modifiers (including the map-type) specified in the clause. If the array or array section is implicitly mapped and corresponding storage exists in the device data environment prior to a task encountering the construct on which the map clause appears, only those array elements that have corresponding storage are implicitly mapped.

If a mapper modifier is not present, the behavior is as if a mapper modifier was specified with the default parameter. The map behavior of a list item in a map clause is modified by a visible user-defined mapper (see Section 7.9.10) if the mapper-identifier of the mapper modifier is defined for a base language type that matches the type of the list item. Otherwise, the predefined default mapper for the type of the list item applies. The efect of the mapper modifier is to remove the list item from the map clause and to apply the clauses specified in the declared mapper to the construct on which the map clause appears. In the clauses applied by the mapper, references to var are replaced with references to the list item and the map-type is replaced with the output map type that is determined according to the rules of map-type decay. If any modifier with the

map-type-modifying property appears in the map clause then the efect is as if that modifier appears in each map clause specified in the declared mapper.

Unless otherwise specified, if a list item is a referencing variable then the efect of the map clause is applied to its referring pointer and, if a referenced pointee exists, its referenced pointee. For the purposes of the map clause, the referenced pointee is treated as if its referring pointer is the referring pointer of the referencing variable.

C++

If a list item is a reference and it does not have a containing structure then the map clause is applied only to its referenced pointee.

C++

Fortran

If a component of a derived type list item is a map clause list item that results from the predefined default mapper for that derived type, and if the derived type component is not an explicit list item or the array base of an explicit list item in a map clause on the construct then:

• If it has the POINTER attribute, it is attach-ineligible; and

• If it has the ALLOCATABLE attribute and an allocated allocation status, and it is present in the device data environment when the construct is encountered, the map clause may treat its allocation status as if it is unallocated if the corresponding component does not have allocated storage.

If a list item in a map clause is an associated pointer that is attach-ineligible or the pointer is the base pointer of another list item in a map clause on the same construct then the efect of the map clause does not apply to its pointer target.

If a list item is a procedure pointer, it is attach-ineligible.

Fortran

C++

If a list item has a closure type that is associated with a lambda expression, it is mapped as if it has a structure type. For each variable that is captured by reference by the lambda expression, the behavior is as if the closure type contains a non-static data member that is a reference to that variable unless otherwise specified. If a variable that is captured by reference is a reference that binds to an object with static storage duration, a corresponding non-static data member might not exist in the closure type. For the corresponding list item of closure type, references in the body of the lambda expression to a variable that is captured by reference refer to the corresponding storage of the variable in the device data environment. For each pointer, that is not a function pointer, that is captured by the lambda expression, the behavior is as if the pointer or, if a corresponding pointer member exists, the corresponding pointer member of the closure object is the base pointer of a zero-ofset assumed-size array that appears as a list item in a map clause with the storage map-type.

If the this pointer is captured by a lambda expression in class scope, and a variable of the associated closure type is later mapped explicitly or implicitly with its full static type, the behavior is as if the object to which this points is also mapped as an array section, of length one, for which the base pointer is the non-static data member that corresponds to the this pointer in the closure object.

If a map clause with a present-modifier appears on a construct and on entry to the region the corresponding list item is not present in the device data environment, runtime error termination is performed.

If a map-entering clause has the self-modifier, the resulting mapping operations are self maps.

The efective map clause set of a data-mapping construct is the set of all map clauses that apply to that construct, including implicit map clauses and map clauses applied by mappers. The efective map clause set of a construct determines the set of mappable storage blocks for that construct. All map clause list items that share storage or have the same containing structure or containing array result in a single mappable storage block that contains the storage of the list items, unless otherwise specified. The storage for each other map clause list item becomes a distinct mappable storage block. If a list item is a referencing variable that has a containing structure, the behavior is as if only the storage for its referring pointer is part of that structure. In general, if a list item is a referencing variable then the storage for its referring pointer and its referenced pointee occupy distinct mappable storage blocks.

For each mappable storage block that is determined by the efective map clause set of a map-entering construct, on entry to the region the following sequence of steps occurs as if performed as a single atomic operation:

1. If a corresponding storage block is not present in the device data environment then:

a) A corresponding storage block, which may share storage with the original storage block, is created in the device data environment of the target device;

b) The corresponding storage block receives a reference count that is initialized to zero. This reference count also applies to any part of the corresponding storage block.

2. The reference count of the corresponding storage block is incremented by one.

3. For each map clause list item in the efective map clause set that is contained by the mappable storage block:

a) If the reference count of the corresponding storage block is one, a new list item with language-specific attributes derived from the original list item is created in the corresponding storage block. The reference count of the new list item is always equal to the reference count of its storage.

b) If the reference count of the corresponding list item is one or if the always-modifier is specified, and if the map type is to, the corresponding list item is updated as if the list item appeared in a to clause on a target\_update directive.

If the efect of the map clauses on a construct would assign the value of an original list item to a corresponding list item more than once then an implementation is allowed to ignore additional assignments of the same value to the corresponding list item.

In all cases on entry to the region, concurrent reads or updates of any part of the corresponding list item must be synchronized with any update of the corresponding list item that occurs as a result of the map clause to avoid data races.

For map clauses on map-entering constructs, if any list item has a base pointer or referring pointer for which a corresponding pointer exists in the device data environment after all mappable storage blocks are mapped, and either a new list item or the corresponding pointer is created in the device data environment on entry to the region, then pointer attachment is performed and the corresponding pointer becomes an attached pointer to the corresponding list item via corresponding pointer initialization.

The original list item and corresponding list item may share storage such that writes to either item by one task followed by a read or write of the other list item by another task without intervening synchronization can result in data races. They are guaranteed to share storage if the mapping operation is a self map, if the map clause appears on a data-mapping construct for which the target device is the encountering device, or if the corresponding list item has an attached pointer that shares storage with its original pointer.

For each mappable storage block that is determined by the efective map clause set of a map-exiting construct, and for which corresponding storage is present in the device data environment, on exit from the region the following sequence of steps occurs as if performed as a single atomic operation:

1. For each map clause list item in the efective map clause set that is contained by the mappable storage block:

a) If the reference count of the corresponding list item is one or if the always-modifier or delete-modifier is specified, and if the map type is from, the original list item is updated as if the list item appeared in a from clause on a target\_update directive.

2. If the delete-modifier is not present and the reference count of the corresponding storage block is finite then the reference count is decremented by one.

3. If the delete-modifier is present and the reference count of the corresponding storage block is finite then the reference count is set to zero.

4. If the reference count of the corresponding storage block is zero, all storage to which that reference count applies is removed from the device data environment.

If the efect of the map clauses on a construct would assign the value of a corresponding list item to an original list item more than once, then an implementation is allowed to ignore additional assignments of the same value to the original list item.

In all cases on exit from the region, concurrent reads or updates of any part of the original list item must be synchronized with any update of the original list item that occurs as a result of the map clause to avoid data races.

If a single contiguous part of the original storage of a list item that results from an implicitly determined data-mapping attribute has corresponding storage in the device data environment prior to a task encountering the construct on which the map clause appears, only that part of the original storage will have corresponding storage in the device data environment as a result of the map clause.

If a list item with an implicitly determined data-mapping attribute does not have any corresponding storage in the device data environment prior to a task encountering the construct associated with the map clause, and one or more contiguous parts of the original storage are either list items or base pointers to list items that are explicitly mapped on the construct, only those parts of the original storage will have corresponding storage in the device data environment as a result of the map clauses on the construct.

C / C++

If a new list item is created then the new list item will have the same static type as the original list item, and language-specific attributes of the new list item, including size and alignment, are determined by that type.

C / C++

C++

If corresponding storage that difers from the original storage is created in a device data environment, all new list items that are created in that corresponding storage are default initialized. Default initialization for new list items of class type, including their data members, is performed as if with an implicitly-declared default constructor and as if non-static data member initializers are ignored.

C++

Fortran

If a new list item is created then the new list item will have the same type, type parameter, and rank as the original list item. The new list item inherits all default values for the type parameters from the original list item.

Fortran

The close-modifier is a hint that the corresponding storage should be close to the target device.

If a map-entering clause specifies a self map for a list item then runtime error termination is performed if any of the following is true:

• The original list item is not accessible and cannot be made accessible from the target device;

• The corresponding list item is present prior to a task encountering the construct on which the clause appears, and the corresponding storage difers from the original storage; or

• The list item is a pointer that would be assigned a diferent value as a result of pointer attachment.
