## 20.9 OpenMP Synchronization Types

This section describes OpenMP types related to synchronization, including locks.

## 20.9.1 OpenMP depend Type

<table><tr><td>Name: dependProperties: named-handle, omp, opaque</td><td>Base Type:implementation-defined-int</td></tr></table>

Type Definition

C / C++

typedef <implementation-defined-integral> omp\_depend\_t;

C / C++

Fortran

integer (kind=omp\_depend\_kind)

Fortran

The depend OpenMP type is an opaque type that represents depend objects.

## 20.9.2 OpenMP impex Type

<table><tr><td>Name: impexProperties: omp</td><td colspan="2">Base Type: enumeration</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Values</td></tr><tr><td>Name</td><td>Value</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>omp_not_impex</td><td>0</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>omp_import</td><td>1</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>omp_export</td><td>2</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>omp_impex</td><td>3</td><td>omp</td></tr></table>

```txt
Type Definition
typedef enum omp_impex_t {
    omp_not_impex = 0,
    omp_import     = 1,
    omp_export     = 2,
    omp_impex      = 3
} omp_impex_t;
C / C++
C / C++
Fortran
integer (kind=omp_impex_kind), &
    parameter :: omp_not_impex = 0
integer (kind=omp_impex_kind), &
    parameter :: omp_import = 1
integer (kind=omp_impex_kind), &
    parameter :: omp_export = 2
integer (kind=omp_impex_kind), &
    parameter :: omp_impex = 3
```

The impex OpenMP type is an enumeration type that is used to specify whether the child tasks of a task may form a task dependence with respect to its dependence-compatible tasks. In particular, it is used to identify whether a task is an importing task and/or an exporting task. The valid constants must include those shown above.

## Cross References

• transparent Clause, see Section 17.9.6

## 20.9.3 OpenMP lock Type

<table><tr><td>Name: lockProperties: named-handle, opaque</td><td>Base Type: opaque</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">Type DefinitionC / C++typedef &lt;implementation-defined&gt; omp_lock_t;C / C++Fortraninteger (kind=omp_lock_kind)Fortran</td></tr></table>

The lock OpenMP type is an opaque type that represents simple locks used in simple lock routines.

## 20.9.4 OpenMP nest\_lock Type

<table><tr><td>Name: nest_lockProperties: named-handle, opaque</td><td>Base Type: opaque</td></tr></table>

## Type Definition

C / C++

typedef <implementation-defined> omp\_nest\_lock\_t;

C / C++

Fortran

integer (kind=omp\_nest\_lock\_kind)

Fortran

The nest\_lock OpenMP type is an opaque type that represents nestable locks used in nestable lock routines.

## 20.9.5 OpenMP sync\_hint Type

<table><tr><td>Name: sync_hintProperties: omp</td><td>Base Type: enumeration</td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td colspan="3">Values</td></tr><tr><td>Name</td><td>Value</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>omp_sync_hint_none</td><td>0x0</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>omp_sync_hint_uncontended</td><td>0x1</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>omp_sync_hint_contended</td><td>0x2</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>omp_sync_hint_nonspeculative</td><td>0x4</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>omp_sync_hint_speculative</td><td>0x8</td><td>omp</td></tr></table>

Type Definition

C / C++

typedef enum omp\_sync\_hint\_t {

omp\_sync\_hint\_none = 0x0,

omp\_sync\_hint\_uncontended = 0x1,

omp\_sync\_hint\_contended = 0x2,

omp\_sync\_hint\_nonspeculative = 0x4,

omp\_sync\_hint\_speculative = 0x8

} omp\_sync\_hint\_t;

C / C++

## Fortran

integer (kind=omp\_sync\_hint\_kind), & parameter :: omp\_sync\_hint\_none = & int(Z'0', kind=omp\_sync\_hint\_kind) integer (kind=omp\_sync\_hint\_kind), & parameter :: omp\_sync\_hint\_uncontended = & int(Z'1', kind=omp\_sync\_hint\_kind) integer (kind=omp\_sync\_hint\_kind), & parameter :: omp\_sync\_hint\_contended = & int(Z'2', kind=omp\_sync\_hint\_kind) integer (kind=omp\_sync\_hint\_kind), & parameter :: omp\_sync\_hint\_nonspeculative = & int(Z'4', kind=omp\_sync\_hint\_kind) integer (kind=omp\_sync\_hint\_kind), & parameter :: omp\_sync\_hint\_speculative = & int(Z'8', kind=omp\_sync\_hint\_kind)

## Fortran

The sync\_hint OpenMP type is used to specify synchronization hints. The omp\_init\_lock\_with\_hint and omp\_init\_nest\_lock\_with\_hint routines provide hints about the expected dynamic behavior or suggested implementation of a lock. Synchronization hints may also be provided for atomic and critical directives by using the hint clause. The efect of a hint does not change the semantics of the associated construct or routine; if ignoring the hint changes the program semantics, the result is unspecified.

Synchronization hints can be combined by using the + or | operators in C/C++ or the + operator in Fortran. Combining omp\_sync\_hint\_none with any other synchronization hint is equivalent to specifying the other synchronization hint.

The intended meaning of each synchronization hint is:

• omp\_sync\_hint\_uncontended: low contention is expected in this operation, that is, few threads are expected to perform the operation simultaneously in a manner that requires synchronization;

• omp\_sync\_hint\_contended: high contention is expected in this operation, that is, many threads are expected to perform the operation simultaneously in a manner that requires synchronization;

• omp\_sync\_hint\_speculative: the programmer suggests that the operation should be implemented using speculative techniques such as transactional memory; and

• omp\_sync\_hint\_nonspeculative: the programmer suggests that the operation should not be implemented using speculative techniques such as transactional memory.

Note – Future OpenMP specifications may add additional synchronization hints to the sync\_hint OpenMP type. Implementers are advised to add implementation defined synchronization hints starting from the most significant bit of the type and to include the name of the implementation in the name of the added synchronization hint to avoid name conflicts with other OpenMP implementations.

## Restrictions

Restrictions to the synchronization hints are as follows:

• The omp\_sync\_hint\_uncontended and omp\_sync\_hint\_contended values may not be combined.

• The omp\_sync\_hint\_nonspeculative and omp\_sync\_hint\_speculative values may not be combined.

## Cross References

• atomic Construct, see Section 17.8.5

• critical Construct, see Section 17.2

• hint Clause, see Section 17.1

• omp\_init\_lock\_with\_hint Routine, see Section 28.1.3

• omp\_init\_nest\_lock\_with\_hint Routine, see Section 28.1.4

## 20.10 OpenMP Affinity Support Types

This section describes OpenMP types that support afinity mechanisms.

## 20.10.1 OpenMP proc\_bind Type

<table><tr><td>Name: proc_bindProperties: omp</td><td>Base Type: enumeration</td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Value</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>omp_proc_bind_false</td><td>0</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>omp_proc_bind_true</td><td>1</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>omp_proc_bind_primary</td><td>2</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>omp_proc_bind_close</td><td>3</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>omp_proc_bind_spread</td><td>4</td><td>omp</td></tr></table>

```txt
Type Definition
C / C++
typedef enum omp_proc_bind_t {
    omp_proc_bind_false = 0,
    omp_proc_bind_true = 1,
    omp_proc_bind_primary = 2,
    omp_proc_bind_close = 3,
    omp_proc_bind_spread = 4
} omp_proc_bind_t;

C / C++
Fortran
integer (kind=omp_proc_bind_kind), &
    parameter :: omp_proc_bind_false = 0
integer (kind=omp_proc_bind_kind), &
    parameter :: omp_proc_bind_true = 1
integer (kind=omp_proc_bind_kind), &
    parameter :: omp_proc_bind_primary = 2
integer (kind=omp_proc_bind_kind), &
    parameter :: omp_proc_bind_close = 3
integer (kind=omp_proc_bind_kind), &
    parameter :: omp_proc_bind_spread = 4
```

The proc\_bind OpenMP type is used in routines that modify or retrieve the value of the bind-var ICV. The valid constants for the proc\_bind type must include those shown above.

Cross References

• bind-var ICV, see Table 3.1

## 20.11 OpenMP Resource Relinquishing Types

This section describes OpenMP types related to resource-relinquishing routines.

20.11.1 OpenMP pause\_resource Type

<table><tr><td>Name: pause_resourceProperties: omp</td><td colspan="2">Base Type: enumeration</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Values</td></tr><tr><td>Name</td><td>Value</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>omp_pause_soft</td><td>1</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>omp_pause_hard</td><td>2</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>omp_pause_stop_tool</td><td>3</td><td>omp</td></tr></table>

## Type Definition

C / C++

typedef enum omp\_pause\_resource\_t {

omp\_pause\_soft = 1,

omp\_pause\_hard = 2,

omp\_pause\_stop\_tool = 3

} omp\_pause\_resource\_t;

C / C++

Fortran

integer (kind=omp\_pause\_resource\_kind), &

parameter :: omp\_pause\_soft = 1

integer (kind=omp\_pause\_resource\_kind), &

parameter :: omp\_pause\_hard = 2

integer (kind=omp\_pause\_resource\_kind), &

parameter :: omp\_pause\_stop\_tool = 3

## Fortran

The pause\_resource OpenMP type is used in resource-relinquishing routines to specify the resources that the instance of the routine relinquishes. The valid constants for the pause\_resource OpenMP type must include those shown above.

When specified and successful, the omp\_pause\_hard value results in a hard pause, which implies that the OpenMP state is not guaranteed to persist across the resource-relinquishing routine call. A hard pause may relinquish any data allocated by OpenMP on specified devices, including data allocated by device memory routines as well as data present on the devices as a result of a declare target directive or map-entering constructs. A hard pause may also relinquish any data associated with a threadprivate directive. When relinquished and when applicable, base language appropriate deallocation/finalization is performed. When relinquished and when applicable, mapped variables on a device will not be copied back from the device to the host device.

When specified and successful, the omp\_pause\_soft value results in a soft pause for which the OpenMP state is guaranteed to persist across the resource-relinquishing routine call, with the exception of any data associated with a threadprivate directive, which may be relinquished across the call. When relinquished and when applicable, base language appropriate deallocation/finalization is performed.

Note – A hard pause may relinquish more resources, but may resume processing regions more slowly. A soft pause allows regions to restart more quickly, but may relinquish fewer resources. An OpenMP implementation will reclaim resources as needed for regions encountered after the resource-relinquishing routine region. Since a hard pause may unmap data on the specified devices, appropriate mapping operations are required before using data on the specified devices after the resource-relinquishing routine region.

When specified and successful, the omp\_pause\_stop\_tool value implies the efects described above for the omp\_pause\_hard value. Additionally, unless otherwise specified, the value implies that the implementation will shutdown the OMPT interface as if program execution is ending.

## 20.12 OpenMP Tool Types

This section describes OpenMP types that support the use of tools.

## 20.12.1 OpenMP control\_tool Type

```txt
Name: control_tool
Properties: omp
Base Type: enumeration
Values
Name
omp_control_tool_start
omp_control_tool_pause
omp_control_tool_flush
omp_control_tool_end
Value
1
2
3
4
Properties
omp
omp
omp
omp
omp
omp
C / C++
typedef enum omp_control_tool_t {
    omp_control_tool_start = 1,
    omp_control_tool_pause = 2,
    omp_control_tool_flush = 3,
    omp_control_tool_end = 4
} omp_control_tool_t;
C / C++
Fortran
integer (kind=omp_control_tool_kind), &
    parameter :: omp_control_tool_start = 1
integer (kind=omp_control_tool_kind), &
    parameter :: omp_control_tool_pause = 2
integer (kind=omp_control_tool_kind), &
    parameter :: omp_control_tool_flush = 3
integer (kind=omp_control_tool_kind), &
    parameter :: omp_control_tool_end = 4
Fortran
The control_tool OpenMP type is used in tool support routines to specify tool commands.
Table 20.5 describes the actions that standard commands request from a tool. The valid constants for the control_tool OpenMP type must include those shown above.
```

Tool-defined values for the control\_tool OpenMP type must be greater than or equal to 64 and less than or equal to 2147483647 (INT32\_MAX). Tools must ignore control\_tool values that they are not explicitly designed to handle. Other values accepted by a tool for the control\_tool OpenMP type are tool defined.

TABLE 20.5: Standard Tool Control Commands

<table><tr><td>Command</td><td>Action</td></tr><tr><td>omp_control_tool_start</td><td>Start or restart monitoring if it is off. If monitoring is already on, this command is idempotent. If monitoring has already been turned off permanently, this command will have no effect.</td></tr><tr><td>omp_control_tool_pause</td><td>Temporarily turn monitoring off. If monitoring is already off, it is idempotent.</td></tr><tr><td>omp_control_tool_flush</td><td>Flush any data buffered by a tool. This command may be applied whether monitoring is on or off.</td></tr><tr><td>omp_control_tool_end</td><td>Turn monitoring off permanently; the tool finalizes itself and flushes all output.</td></tr></table>

20.12.2 OpenMP control\_tool\_result Type

<table><tr><td>Name: control_tool_resultProperties: omp</td><td colspan="2">Base Type: enumeration</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Values</td></tr><tr><td>Name</td><td>Value</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>omp_control_tool_notool</td><td>-2</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>omp_control_tool_nocallback</td><td>-1</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>omp_control_tool_success</td><td>0</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>omp_control_tool_ignored</td><td>1</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Type DefinitionC / C++typedef enum omp_control_tool_result_t {omp_control_tool_notool = -2,omp_control_tool_nocallback = -1,omp_control_tool_success = 0,omp_control_tool_ignored = 1} omp_control_tool_result_t;</td></tr></table>

## Fortran

integer (kind=omp\_control\_tool\_result\_kind), & parameter :: omp\_control\_tool\_notool = -2 integer (kind=omp\_control\_tool\_result\_kind), & parameter :: omp\_control\_tool\_nocallback = -1 integer (kind=omp\_control\_tool\_result\_kind), & parameter :: omp\_control\_tool\_success = 0 integer (kind=omp\_control\_tool\_result\_kind), & parameter :: omp\_control\_tool\_ignored = 1

## Fortran

The control\_tool\_result OpenMP type is used in tool support routines to specify the results of tool commands. The valid constants for the control\_tool\_result OpenMP type must include those shown above.

# 21 Parallel Region Support Routines

This chapter describes routines that support execution of parallel regions, including routines to determine the number of OpenMP threads for parallel regions and that query the nesting of paralle regions at runtime.

## 21.1 omp\_set\_num\_threads Routine

<table><tr><td>Name: omp_set_num_threadsCategory: subroutine</td><td>Properties: ICV-modifying</td></tr></table>

## Arguments

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>num_threads</td><td>integer</td><td>positive</td></tr></table>

## Prototypes

C / C++

void omp\_set\_num\_threads(int num\_threads);

C / C++

Fortran

subroutine omp\_set\_num\_threads(num\_threads)

integer num\_threads

Fortran

## Effect

The efect of this routine is to set the value of the first element of the nthreads-var ICV of the current task to the value specified in the argument. Thus, the routine has the ICV modifying property, through which it afects the number of threads to be used for subsequent parallel regions that do not specify a num\_threads clause.

Cross References

• nthreads-var ICV, see Table 3.1

• num\_threads Clause, see Section 12.1.2

• parallel Construct, see Section 12.1

• Determining the Number of Threads for a parallel Region, see Section 12.1.1

## 21.2 omp\_get\_num\_threads Routine

Return Type

<table><tr><td>Name: omp_get_num_threadsCategory: function</td><td>Properties: default</td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>integer</td><td>default</td></tr></table>

C / C++

int omp\_get\_num\_threads(void);

C / C++

Fortran

integer function omp\_get\_num\_threads()

Fortran

The omp\_get\_num\_threads routine returns the number of threads in the team that is executing the parallel region to which the routine region binds.

## 21.3 omp\_get\_thread\_num Routine

<table><tr><td>Name: omp_get_thread_numCategory: function</td><td>Properties: default</td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>integer</td><td>default</td></tr></table>

C / C++

int omp\_get\_thread\_num(void);

C / C++

Fortran

integer function omp\_get\_thread\_num()

Fortran

The omp\_get\_thread\_num routine returns the thread number of the calling thread, within the team that is executing the parallel region to which the routine region binds. For assigned threads, the thread number is an integer between 0 and one less than the value returned by omp\_get\_num\_threads, inclusive. The thread number of the primary thread of the team is 0. For unassigned threads, the thread number is the value omp\_unassigned\_thread.

## Cross References

• Predefined Identifiers, see Section 20.1

• omp\_get\_num\_threads Routine, see Section 21.2

## 21.4 omp\_get\_max\_threads Routine

<table><tr><td>Name: omp_get_max_threadsCategory: function</td><td>Properties: ICV-retrieving</td></tr></table>

## Return Type

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>integer</td><td>default</td></tr></table>

## Prototypes

C / C++

int omp\_get\_max\_threads(void);

C / C++

Fortran

integer function omp\_get\_max\_threads()

Fortran

## Effect

The value returned by omp\_get\_max\_threads is the value of the first element of the nthreads-var ICV of the current task; thus, the routine has the ICV retrieving property. Its return value is an upper bound on the number of threads that could be used to form a new team if a parallel region without a num\_threads clause is encountered after execution returns from this routine.

Cross References

• nthreads-var ICV, see Table 3.1

• num\_threads Clause, see Section 12.1.2

• parallel Construct, see Section 12.1

• Determining the Number of Threads for a parallel Region, see Section 12.1.1

## 21.5 omp\_get\_thread\_limit Routine

<table><tr><td>Name: omp_get_thread_limitCategory: function</td><td>Properties: ICV-retrieving</td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>integer</td><td>default</td></tr></table>

## Prototypes

C / C++

int omp\_get\_thread\_limit(void);

C / C++

Fortran

integer function omp\_get\_thread\_limit()

Fortran

Effect

The omp\_get\_thread\_limit routine returns the value of the thread-limit-var ICV. Thus, it returns the maximum number of threads available to execute tasks in the current contention group.

Cross References

• thread-limit-var ICV, see Table 3.1

## 21.6 omp\_in\_parallel Routine

<table><tr><td colspan="2">Name: omp_in_parallelCategory: function</td><td>Properties: default</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Return Type</td></tr><tr><td>Name</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>logical</td><td>default</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">PrototypesC / C++int omp_in_parallel(void);C / C++Fortranlogical function omp_in_parallel()Fortran</td></tr></table>

The efect of the omp\_in\_parallel routine is to return true if the current task is enclosed by an active parallel region, and the parallel region is enclosed by the outermost initial task region on the device. That is, it returns true if the active-levels-var ICV is greater than zero. Otherwise, it returns false.

## Cross References

• active-levels-var ICV, see Table 3.1

• parallel Construct, see Section 12.1

## 21.7 omp\_set\_dynamic Routine

Return Type

<table><tr><td>Name: omp_set_dynamicCategory: subroutine</td><td>Properties: ICV-modifying</td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>dynamic_threads</td><td>logical</td><td>default</td></tr></table>

Prototypes

C / C++

void omp\_set\_dynamic(int dynamic\_threads);

C / C++

Fortran

subroutine omp\_set\_dynamic(dynamic\_threads)

logical dynamic\_threads

Fortran

## Effect

For implementations that support dynamic adjustment of the number of threads, if the argument to omp\_set\_dynamic evaluates to true, dynamic adjustment is enabled for the current task by setting the value of the dyn-var ICV to true; otherwise, dynamic adjustment is disabled for the current task by setting the value of the dyn-var ICV to false. For implementations that do not support dynamic adjustment of the number of threads, this routine has no efect: the value of dyn-var remains false.

Cross References

• dyn-var ICV, see Table 3.1

## 21.8 omp\_get\_dynamic Routine

<table><tr><td>Name: omp_get_dynamicCategory: function</td><td>Properties: ICV-retrieving</td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>logical</td><td>default</td></tr></table>

Prototypes

C / C++

int omp\_get\_dynamic(void);

C / C++

Fortran

logical function omp\_get\_dynamic()

Fortran

The omp\_get\_dynamic routine returns the value of the dyn-var ICV. Thus, this routine returns true if dynamic adjustment of the number of threads is enabled for the current task; otherwise, it returns false. If an implementation does not support dynamic adjustment of the number of threads, then this routine always returns false.

Cross References

• dyn-var ICV, see Table 3.1

## 21.9 omp\_set\_schedule Routine

<table><tr><td>Name: omp_set_scheduleCategory: subroutine</td><td>Properties: ICV-modifying</td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Type</td><td>Properties</td></tr><tr><td>kind</td><td>sched</td><td>omp</td></tr><tr><td>chunk_size</td><td>integer</td><td>default</td></tr></table>

C / C++

void omp\_set\_schedule(omp\_sched\_t kind, int chunk\_size);

C / C++

subroutine omp\_set\_schedule(kind, chunk\_size)

integer (kind=omp\_sched\_kind) kind

Fortran

21 The efect of this routine is to set the value of the run-sched-var ICV of the current task to the 22 values specified in the two arguments. Thus, the routine afects the schedule that is applied when 23 runtime is used as the schedule type.

The schedule is set to the schedule type that is specified by the first argument kind. For the schedule types omp\_sched\_static, omp\_sched\_dynamic, and omp\_sched\_guided, the chunk\_size is set to the value of the second argument, or to the default chunk\_size if the value of the second argument is less than 1; for the schedule type omp\_sched\_auto, the second argument is ignored; for implementation defined schedule types, the values and associated meanings of the second argument are implementation defined.

## Cross References

• run-sched-var ICV, see Table 3.1

• OpenMP sched Type, see Section 20.5.1
