## 6.2. CUDA Runtime

The runtime is implemented in the cudart library, which is linked to the application, either statically via cudart.lib or libcudart.a, or dynamically via cudart.dll or libcudart.so. Applications that require cudart.dll and/or cudart.so for dynamic linking typically include them as part of the application installation package. It is only safe to pass the address of CUDA runtime symbols between components that link to the same instance of the CUDA runtime.

All its entry points are prefixed with cuda.

As mentioned in Heterogeneous Programming, the CUDA programming model assumes a system composed of a host and a device, each with their own separate memory. Device Memory gives an overview of the runtime functions used to manage device memory.

Shared Memory illustrates the use of shared memory, introduced in Thread Hierarchy, to maximize performance.

Page-Locked Host Memory introduces page-locked host memory that is required to overlap kernel execution with data transfers between host and device memory.

Asynchronous Concurrent Execution describes the concepts and API used to enable asynchronous concurrent execution at various levels in the system.

Multi-Device System shows how the programming model extends to a system with multiple devices attached to the same host.

Error Checking describes how to properly check the errors generated by the runtime.

Call Stack mentions the runtime functions used to manage the CUDA C++ call stack.

Texture and Surface Memory presents the texture and surface memory spaces that provide another way to access device memory; they also expose a subset of the GPU texturing hardware.

Graphics Interoperability introduces the various functions the runtime provides to interoperate with the two main graphics APIs, OpenGL and Direct3D.

## 6.2.1. Initialization

As of CUDA 12.0, the cudaInitDevice() and cudaSetDevice() calls initialize the runtime and the primary context associated with the specified device. Absent these calls, the runtime will implicitly use device 0 and self-initialize as needed to process other runtime API requests. One needs to keep this in mind when timing runtime function calls and when interpreting the error code from the first call into the runtime. Before 12.0, cudaSetDevice() would not initialize the runtime and applications would often use the no-op runtime call cudaFree(0) to isolate the runtime initialization from other api activity (both for the sake of timing and error handling).

The runtime creates a CUDA context for each device in the system (see Context for more details on CUDA contexts). This context is the primary context for this device and is initialized at the first runtime function which requires an active context on this device. It is shared among all the host threads of the application. As part of this context creation, the device code is just-in-time compiled if necessary (see Just-in-Time Compilation) and loaded into device memory. This all happens transparently. If needed, for example, for driver API interoperability, the primary context of a device can be accessed from the driver API as described in Interoperability between Runtime and Driver APIs.

When a host thread calls cudaDeviceReset(), this destroys the primary context of the device the host thread currently operates on (that is, the current device as defined in Device Selection). The next runtime function call made by any host thread that has this device as current will create a new primary context for this device.

Note: The CUDA interfaces use global state that is initialized during host program initiation and destroyed during host program termination. The CUDA runtime and driver cannot detect if this state is invalid, so using any of these interfaces (implicitly or explicitly) during program initiation or termination after main) will result in undefined behavior.

As of CUDA 12.0, cudaSetDevice() will now explicitly initialize the runtime after changing the current device for the host thread. Previous versions of CUDA delayed runtime initialization on the new device until the first runtime call was made after cudaSetDevice(). This change means that it is now very important to check the return value of cudaSetDevice() for initialization errors.

The runtime functions from the error handling and version management sections of the reference manual do not initialize the runtime.

## 6.2.2. Device Memory

As mentioned in Heterogeneous Programming, the CUDA programming model assumes a system composed of a host and a device, each with their own separate memory. Kernels operate out of device memory, so the runtime provides functions to allocate, deallocate, and copy device memory, as well as transfer data between host memory and device memory.

Device memory can be allocated either as linear memory or as CUDA arrays.

CUDA arrays are opaque memory layouts optimized for texture fetching. They are described in Texture and Surface Memory.

Linear memory is allocated in a single unified address space, which means that separately allocated entities can reference one another via pointers, for example, in a binary tree or linked list. The size of the address space depends on the host system (CPU) and the compute capability of the used GPU:

Table 4: Linear Memory Address Space

<table><tr><td></td><td>x86_64 (AMD64)</td><td>POWER (ppc64le)</td><td>ARM64</td></tr><tr><td>up to compute capability 5.3 (Maxwell)</td><td>40bit</td><td>40bit</td><td>40bit</td></tr><tr><td>compute capability 6.0 (Pascal) or newer</td><td>up to 47bit</td><td>up to 49bit</td><td>up to 48bit</td></tr></table>

Note: On devices of compute capability 5.3 (Maxwell) and earlier, the CUDA driver creates an uncommitted 40bit virtual address reservation to ensure that memory allocations (pointers) fall into the supported range. This reservation appears as reserved virtual memory, but does not occupy any physical memory until the program actually allocates memory.

Linear memory is typically allocated using cudaMalloc() and freed using cudaFree() and data transfer between host memory and device memory are typically done using cudaMemcpy(). In the vector addition code sample of Kernels, the vectors need to be copied from host memory to device memory:

```lisp
// Device code
__global__ void VecAdd(float* A, float* B, float* C, int N)
{
    int i = blockDim.x * blockIdx.x + threadIdx.x;
    if (i < N)
        C[i] = A[i] + B[i];
}

// Host code
int main()
{
    int N = ...;
    size_t size = N * sizeof(float);

    // Allocate input vectors h_A and h_B in host memory
    float* h_A = (float*)malloc(size);
    float* h_B = (float*)malloc(size);
    float* h_C = (float*)malloc(size);

    // Initialize input vectors
    ...

    // Allocate vectors in device memory
    float* d_A;
    cudaMalloc(&d_A, size);
    float* d_B;
    cudaMalloc(&d_B, size);
    float* d_C;
    cudaMalloc(&d_C, size);

    // Copy vectors from host memory to device memory
    cudaMemcpy(d_A, h_A, size, cudaMemcpyHostToDevice);
    cudaMemcpy(d_B, h_B, size, cudaMemcpyHostToDevice);

    // Invoke kernel
    int threadsPerBlock = 256;
    int blocksPerGrid =
        (N + threadsPerBlock - 1) / threadsPerBlock;
```

(continued from previous page)

```c
VecAdd<<<blocksPerGrid, threadsPerBlock>>>(d_A, d_B, d_C, N);

// Copy result from device memory to host memory
// h_C contains the result in host memory
cudaMemcpy(h_C, d_C, size, cudaMemcpyDeviceToHost);

// Free device memory
cudaFree(d_A);
cudaFree(d_B);
cudaFree(d_C);

// Free host memory
...
```

Linear memory can also be allocated through cudaMallocPitch() and cudaMalloc3D(). These functions are recommended for allocations of 2D or 3D arrays as it makes sure that the allocation is appropriately padded to meet the alignment requirements described in Device Memory Accesses, therefore ensuring best performance when accessing the row addresses or performing copies between 2D arrays and other regions of device memory (using the cudaMemcpy2D() and cudaMemcpy3D() functions). The returned pitch (or stride) must be used to access array elements. The following code sample allocates a width x height 2D array of floating-point values and shows how to loop over the array elements in device code:

```c
// Host code
int width = 64, height = 64;
float* devPtr;
size_t pitch;
cudaMallocPitch(&devPtr, &pitch,
                    width * sizeof(float), height);
MyKernel<<<100, 512>>>(devPtr, pitch, width, height);

// Device code
__global__ void MyKernel(float* devPtr,
                       size_t pitch, int width, int height)
{
    for (int r = 0; r < height; ++r) {
        float* row = (float*)(char*)devPtr + r * pitch);
        for (int c = 0; c < width; ++c) {
            float element = row[c];
        }
    }
}
```

The following code sample allocates a width x height x depth 3D array of floating-point values and shows how to loop over the array elements in device code:

```c
// Host code
int width = 64, height = 64, depth = 64;
cudaExtent extent = make_cudaExtent(width * sizeof(float),
                             height, depth);
cudaPitchedPtr devPitchedPtr;
cudaMalloc3D(&devPitchedPtr, extent);
MyKernel<<<100, 512>>>(devPitchedPtr, width, height, depth);

// Device code
```

(continues on next page)

```lisp
__global__ void MyKernel(cudaPitchedPtr devPitchedPtr,
                          int width, int height, int depth)
{
    char* devPtr = devPitchedPtr.ptr;
    size_t pitch = devPitchedPtr.pitch;
    size_t slicePitch = pitch * height;
    for (int z = 0; z < depth; ++z) {
        char* slice = devPtr + z * slicePitch;
        for (int y = 0; y < height; ++y) {
            float* row = (float*)(slice + y * pitch);
            for (int x = 0; x < width; ++x) {
                float element = row[x];
            }
        }
    }
}
```

(continued from previous page)

Note: To avoid allocating too much memory and thus impacting system-wide performance, request the allocation parameters from the user based on the problem size. If the allocation fails, you can fallback to other slower memory types (cudaMallocHost(), cudaHostRegister(), etc.), or return an error telling the user how much memory was needed that was denied. If your application cannot request the allocation parameters for some reason, we recommend using cudaMallocManaged() for platforms that support it.

The reference manual lists all the various functions used to copy memory between linear memory allocated with cudaMalloc(), linear memory allocated with cudaMallocPitch() or cudaMalloc3D(), CUDA arrays, and memory allocated for variables declared in global or constant memory space.
