## 13.3.2. Device-side Launch from PTX

This section is for the programming language and compiler implementers who target Parallel Thread Execution (PTX) and plan to support Dynamic Parallelism in their language. It provides the low-level details related to supporting kernel launches at the PTX level.

## 13.3.2.1 Kernel Launch APIs

Device-side kernel launches can be implemented using the following two APIs accessible from PTX: cudaLaunchDevice() and cudaGetParameterBuffer(). cudaLaunchDevice() launches the specified kernel with the parameter bufer that is obtained by calling cudaGetParameterBuffer() and filled with the parameters to the launched kernel. The parameter bufer can be NULL, i.e., no need to invoke cudaGetParameterBuffer(), if the launched kernel does not take any parameters.

## 13.3.2.1.1 cudaLaunchDevice

At the PTX level, cudaLaunchDevice()needs to be declared in one of the two forms shown below before it is used.

```txt
// PTX-level Declaration of cudaLaunchDevice() when .address_size is 64
.extern .func(.param .b32 func_retval0) cudaLaunchDevice
(
    .param .b64 func,
    .param .b64 parameterBuffer,
    .param .align 4 .b8 gridDimension[12],
    .param .align 4 .b8 blockDimension[12],
    .param .b32 sharedMemSize,
    .param .b64 stream
)
;
```

The CUDA-level declaration below is mapped to one of the aforementioned PTX-level declarations and is found in the system header file cuda\_device\_runtime\_api.h. The function is defined in the cudadevrt system library, which must be linked with a program in order to use device-side kernel launch functionality.

```c
// CUDA-level declaration of cudaLaunchDevice()
extern "C" __device__
cudaError_t cudaLaunchDevice(void *func, void *parameterBuffer,
                       dim3 gridDimension, dim3 blockDimension,
                       unsigned int sharedMemSize,
                       cudaStream_t stream);
```

The first parameter is a pointer to the kernel to be is launched, and the second parameter is the parameter bufer that holds the actual parameters to the launched kernel. The layout of the parameter bufer is explained in Parameter Bufer Layout, below. Other parameters specify the launch configuration, i.e., as grid dimension, block dimension, shared memory size, and the stream associated with the launch (please refer to Execution Configuration for the detailed description of launch configuration.

## 13.3.2.1.2 cudaGetParameterBufer

cudaGetParameterBuffer() needs to be declared at the PTX level before it’s used. The PTX-level declaration must be in one of the two forms given below, depending on address size:

```javascript
// PTX-level Declaration of cudaGetParameterBuffer() when .address_size is 64
 extern .func(.param .b64 func_retval0) cudaGetParameterBuffer
(
  .param .b64 alignment,
  .param .b64 size
)
;
```

The following CUDA-level declaration of cudaGetParameterBuffer() is mapped to the aforementioned PTX-level declaration:

```c
// CUDA-level Declaration of cudaGetParameterBuffer()
extern "C" __device__
void *cudaGetParameterBuffer(size_t alignment, size_t size);
```

The first parameter specifies the alignment requirement of the parameter bufer and the second parameter the size requirement in bytes. In the current implementation, the parameter bufer returned by cudaGetParameterBuffer() is always guaranteed to be 64- byte aligned, and the alignment requirement parameter is ignored. However, it is recommended to pass the correct alignment requirement value - which is the largest alignment of any parameter to be placed in the parameter bufer - to cudaGetParameterBuffer() to ensure portability in the future.

## 13.3.2.2 Parameter Bufer Layout

Parameter reordering in the parameter bufer is prohibited, and each individual parameter placed in the parameter bufer is required to be aligned. That is, each parameter must be placed at the n<sup>th</sup> byte in the parameter bufer, where n is the smallest multiple of the parameter size that is greater than the ofset of the last byte taken by the preceding parameter. The maximum size of the parameter bufer is 4KB.

For a more detailed description of PTX code generated by the CUDA compiler, please refer to the PTX-3.5 specification.

## 13.3.3. Toolkit Support for Dynamic Parallelism

## 13.3.3.1 Including Device Runtime API in CUDA Code

Similar to the host-side runtime API, prototypes for the CUDA device runtime API are included automatically during program compilation. There is no need to includecuda\_device\_runtime\_api.h explicitly.

## 13.3.3.2 Compiling and Linking

When compiling and linking CUDA programs using dynamic parallelism with nvcc, the program will automatically link against the static device runtime library libcudadevrt.

The device runtime is ofered as a static library (cudadevrt.lib on Windows, libcudadevrt.a under Linux), against which a GPU application that uses the device runtime must be linked. Linking of device libraries can be accomplished through nvcc and/or nvlink. Two simple examples are shown below.

A device runtime program may be compiled and linked in a single step, if all required source files can be specified from the command line:

```shell
$ nvcc -arch=sm_75 -rdc=true hello_world.cu -o hello -lcudadevrt
```

It is also possible to compile CUDA .cu source files first to object files, and then link these together in a two-stage process:

```shell
$ nvcc -arch=sm_75 -dc hello_world.cu -o hello_world.o
$ nvcc -arch=sm_75 -rdc=true hello_world.o -o hello -lcudadevrt
```

Please see the Using Separate Compilation section of The CUDA Driver Compiler NVCC guide for more details.

## 13.4. Programming Guidelines

## 13.4.1. Basics

The device runtime is a functional subset of the host runtime. API level device management, kernel launching, device memcpy, stream management, and event management are exposed from the device runtime.

Programming for the device runtime should be familiar to someone who already has experience with CUDA. Device runtime syntax and semantics are largely the same as that of the host API, with any exceptions detailed earlier in this document.

The following example shows a simple Hello World program incorporating dynamic parallelism:

```c
#include <stdio.h>

__global__ void childKernel()
{
    printf("Hello ");
}

__global__ void tailKernel()
{
    printf("World!\n");
}

__global__ void parentKernel()
{
    // launch child
    childKernel<<<1,1>>>();
}
```
