
## 18.5.15. Long Double

The use of long double type is not supported in device code.

## 18.5.16. Deprecation Annotation

nvcc supports the use of deprecated attribute when using gcc, clang, xlC, icc or pgcc host compilers, and the use of deprecated declspec when using the cl.exe host compiler. It also supports the [[deprecated]] standard attribute when the C++14 dialect has been enabled. The CUDA frontend compiler will generate a deprecation diagnostic for a reference to a deprecated entity from within the body of a \_\_device\_\_, \_\_global\_\_ or \_\_host\_\_ \_\_device\_\_ function when \_\_CUDA\_ARCH\_\_ is defined (i.e., during device compilation phase). Other references to deprecated entities will be handled by the host compiler, e.g., a reference from within a \_\_host\_\_ function.

The CUDA frontend compiler does not support the #pragma gcc diagnostic or #pragma warning mechanisms supported by various host compilers. Therefore, deprecation diagnostics generated by the CUDA frontend compiler are not afected by these pragmas, but diagnostics generated by the host compiler will be afected. To suppress the warning for device-code, user can use NVIDIA specific pragma #pragma nv\_diag\_suppress. The nvcc flag -Wno-deprecated-declarations can be used to suppress all deprecation warnings, and the flag -Werror=deprecated-declarations can be used to turn deprecation warnings into errors.

## 18.5.17. Noreturn Annotation

nvcc supports the use of noreturn attribute when using gcc, clang, xlC, icc or pgcc host compilers, and the use of noreturn declspec when using the cl.exe host compiler. It also supports the [[noreturn]] standard attribute when the C++11 dialect has been enabled.

The attribute/declspec can be used in both host and device code.

## 18.5.18. [[likely]] / [[unlikely]] Standard Attributes

These attributes are accepted in all configurations that support the C++ standard attribute syntax. The attributes can be used to hint to the device compiler optimizer whether a statement is more or less likely to be executed compared to any alternative path that does not include the statement.

Example:

```txt
__device__ int foo(int x) {

  if (i < 10) [[likely]] { // the 'if' block will likely be entered
    return 4;
  }
  if (i < 20) [[unlikely]] { // the 'if' block will not likely be entered
    return 1;
  }
  return 0;
}
```

If these attributes are used in host code when \_\_CUDA\_ARCH\_\_ is undefined, then they will be present in the code parsed by the host compiler, which may generate a warning if the attributes are not supported. For example, clang11 host compiler will generate an ‘unknown attribute’ warning.

## 18.5.19. const and pure GNU Attributes

These attributes are supported for both host and device functions, when using a language dialect and host compiler that also supports these attributes e.g. with g++ host compiler.

For a device function annotated with the pure attribute, the device code optimizer assumes that the function does not change any mutable state visible to caller functions (e.g. memory).

For a device function annotated with the const attribute, the device code optimizer assumes that the function does not access or change any mutable state visible to caller functions (e.g. memory).

Example:

```lisp
__attribute__((const)) __device__ int get(int in);

__device__ int doit(int in) {
int sum = 0;

//because 'get' is marked with 'const' attribute
//device code optimizer can recognize that the
//second call to get() can be commoned out.
sum = get(in);
```

(continues on next page)

```txt
sum += get(in);

return sum;
}
```

(continued from previous page)

## 18.5.20. \_\_nv\_pure\_\_ Attribute

The \_\_nv\_pure\_\_ attributed is supported for both host and device functions. For host functions, when using a language dialect that supports the pure GNU attribute, the \_\_nv\_pure\_\_ attribute is translated to the pure GNU attribute. Similarly when using MSVC as the host compiler, the attribute is translated to the MSVC noalias attribute.

When a device function is annotated with the \_\_nv\_pure\_\_ attribute, the device code optimizer assumes that the function does not change any mutable state visible to caller functions (e.g. memory).

## 18.5.21. Intel Host Compiler Specific

The CUDA frontend compiler parser does not recognize some of the intrinsic functions supported by the Intel compiler (e.g. icc). When using the Intel compiler as a host compiler, nvcc will therefore enable the macro \_\_INTEL\_COMPILER\_USE\_INTRINSIC\_PROTOTYPES during preprocessing. This macro enables explicit declarations of the Intel compiler intrinsic functions in the associated header files, allowing nvcc to support use of such functions in host code<sup>13</sup>.

## 18.5.22. C++11 Features

C++11 features that are enabled by default by the host compiler are also supported by nvcc, subject to the restrictions described in this document. In addition, invoking nvcc with -std=c++11 flag turns on all C++11 features and also invokes the host preprocessor, compiler and linker with the corresponding C++11 dialect option<sup>14</sup>.

## 18.5.22.1 Lambda Expressions

The execution space specifiers for all member functions<sup>15</sup> of the closure class associated with a lambda expression are derived by the compiler as follows. As described in the C++11 standard, the compiler creates a closure type in the smallest block scope, class scope or namespace scope that contains the lambda expression. The innermost function scope enclosing the closure type is computed, and the corresponding function’s execution space specifiers are assigned to the closure class member functions. If there is no enclosing function scope, the execution space specifier is \_\_host\_\_.

Examples of lambda expressions and computed execution space specifiers are shown below (in comments).

```javascript
auto globalVar = [] { return 0; }; // __host--

void f1(void) {
    auto l1 = [] { return 1; };      // __host__
}

__device__ void f2(void) {
    auto l2 = [] { return 2; };      // __device__
}

__host__ __device__ void f3(void) {
    auto l3 = [] { return 3; };      // __host__ __device__
}

__device__ void f4(int (*fp)() = [] { return 4; } /* __host__ */) {
}

__global__ void f5(void) {
    auto l5 = [] { return 5; };      // __device__
}

__device__ void f6(void) {
    struct S1_t {
        static void helper(int (*fp)() = [] {return 6; } /* __device__ */) {
            }
        };
}
```

The closure type of a lambda expression cannot be used in the type or non-type argument of a \_\_global\_\_ function template instantiation, unless the lambda is defined within a \_\_device\_\_ or \_\_global\_\_ function.

Example:

```cpp
template <typename T>
__global__ void foo(T in) { };

template <typename T>
struct S1_t { };

void bar(void) {
  auto temp1 = [] { };

  foo<<<1,1>>>(temp1);                      // error: lambda closure type used in
                                // template type argument
  foo<<<1,1>>>( S1_t<decltype(temp1)>()); // error: lambda closure type used in
                                // template type argument
}
```

## 18.5.22.2 std::initializer\_list

By default, the CUDA compiler will implicitly consider the member functions of std::initializer\_list to have \_\_host\_\_ \_\_device\_\_ execution space specifiers, and therefore they can be invoked directly from device code. The nvcc flag --no-host-device-initializer-list will disable this behavior; member functions of std::initializer\_list will then be considered as \_\_host\_\_ functions and will not be directly invokable from device code.

Example:

```cpp
#include <initializer_list>

__device__ int foo(std::initializer_list<int> in);

__device__ void bar(void)
{
    foo({4,5,6});    // (a) initializer list containing only
        // constant expressions.

    int i = 4;
    foo({i,5,6});    // (b) initializer list with at least one
        // non-constant element.
        // This form may have better performance than (a).
}
```

## 18.5.22.3 Rvalue references

By default, the CUDA compiler will implicitly consider std::move and std::forward function templates to have \_\_host\_\_ \_\_device\_\_ execution space specifiers, and therefore they can be invoked directly from device code. The nvcc flag --no-host-device-move-forward will disable this behavior; std::move and std::forward will then be considered as \_\_host\_\_ functions and will not be directly invokable from device code.

## 18.5.22.4 Constexpr functions and function templates

By default, a constexpr function cannot be called from a function with incompatible execution space<sup>16</sup>. The experimental nvcc flag --expt-relaxed-constexpr removes this restriction<sup>17</sup>. When this flag is specified, host code can invoke a \_\_device\_\_ constexpr function and device code can invoke a \_\_host\_\_ constexpr function. nvcc will define the macro \_\_CUDACC\_RELAXED\_CONSTEXPR\_\_ when --expt-relaxed-constexpr has been specified. Note that a function template instantiation may not be a constexpr function even if the corresponding template is marked with the keyword constexpr (C++11 Standard Section [dcl.constexpr.p6]).

## 18.5.22.5 Constexpr variables

Let ‘V’ denote a namespace scope variable or a class static member variable that has been marked constexpr and that does not have execution space annotations (e.g., \_\_device\_\_, \_\_constant\_\_, \_\_shared\_\_). V is considered to be a host code variable.

If V is of scalar type<sup>18</sup> other than long double and the type is not volatile-qualified, the value of V can be directly used in device code. In addition, if V is of a non-scalar type then scalar elements of V can be used inside a constexpr \_\_device\_\_ or \_\_host\_\_ \_\_device\_\_ function, if the call to the function is a constant expression<sup>19</sup>. Device source code cannot contain a reference to V or take the address of V.

## Example:

```txt
constexpr int xxx = 10;
constexpr int yyy = xxx + 4;
struct S1_t { static constexpr int qqq = 100; };

constexpr int host_arr[] = { 1, 2, 3};
constexpr __device__ int get(int idx) { return host_arr[idx]; }

__device__ int foo(int idx) {
    int v1 = xxx + yyy + S1_t::qqq; // OK
    const int &v2 = xxx; // error: reference to host constexpr
// variable
    const int *v3 = &xxx; // error: address of host constexpr
// variable
    const int &v4 = S1_t::qqq; // error: reference to host constexpr
// variable
    const int *v5 = &S1_t::qqq; // error: address of host constexpr
// variable

    v1 += get(2); // OK: 'get(2)' is a constant
// expression.
    v1 += get(idx); // error: 'get(idx)' is not a constant
// expression
    v1 += host_arr[2]; // error: 'host_arr' does not have
// scalar type.
    return v1;
}
```

## 18.5.22.6 Inline namespaces

For an input CUDA translation unit, the CUDA compiler may invoke the host compiler for compiling the host code within the translation unit. In the code passed to the host compiler, the CUDA compiler will inject additional compiler generated code, if the input CUDA translation unit contained a definition of any of the following entities:

▶ \_\_global\_\_ function or function template instantiation

```python
__device__, __constant__
```

▶ variables with surface or texture type

```txt
$^{18}$ C++ Standard Section [basic.types]
$^{19}$ C++ Standard Section [expr.const]
```

The compiler generated code contains a reference to the defined entity. If the entity is defined within an inline namespace and another entity of the same name and type signature is defined in an enclosing namespace, this reference may be considered ambiguous by the host compiler and host compilation will fail.

This limitation can be avoided by using unique names for such entities defined within an inline namespace.

## Example:

```txt
__device__ int Gvar;
inline namespace N1 {
  __device__ int Gvar;
}

// <-- CUDA compiler inserts a reference to "Gvar" at this point in the
// translation unit. This reference will be considered ambiguous by the
// host compiler and compilation will fail.
```

Example:

```cpp
inline namespace N1 {
    namespace N2 {
        __device__ int Gvar;
    }
}

namespace N2 {
    __device__ int Gvar;
}

// <-- CUDA compiler inserts reference to "::N2::Gvar" at this point in
// the translation unit. This reference will be considered ambiguous by
// the host compiler and compilation will fail.
```

## 18.5.22.6.1 Inline unnamed namespaces

The following entities cannot be declared in namespace scope within an inline unnamed namespace:

```txt
__managed__, __device__, __shared__ and __constant__ variables
```

\_\_global\_\_ function and function templates

▶ variables with surface or texture type

## Example:

```cpp
inline namespace {
  namespace N2 {
    template <typename T>
      __global__ void foo(void);          // error

      __global__ void bar(void) { }         // error

      template <>
      __global__ void foo<int>(void) { }     // error

      __device__ int x1b;                    // error
```

(continues on next page)
