
In the above example, the array bounds (m1, k1, and n1) are input as command line arguments. The matrices a1(1:m1, 1:k1), b1(1:k1, 1:n1), and c1(1:m1, 1:n1) are allocated and initialized.

Also, the padded matrices a2(1:m2, 1:k2), b2(1:k2, 1:n2), and c1(1:m2, 1:n2) are allocated and initialized. m2 is the smallest multiple of 8 that is >= m1. Similarly, k2 is the smallest multiple of 8 that is >= k1, and n2 is the smallest multiple of 8 that is >= n1.

The program compares the time taken by the DGEMM computation on a1, b1, and c1 versus the time taken by the DGEMM computation on a2, b2, and c2.

The compilation, link and run commands used are shown below.

```txt
Compile:
ifx -fiopenmp -fopenmp-targets=spir64 -qmkl -fpp -free -c dgemm_pad_f_01.f
Link:
ifx -fiopenmp -fopenmp-targets=spir64 -qmkl -lOpenCL dgemm_pad_f_01.o
```

```javascript
Run:
ZE_AFFINITY_MASK=0 LIBOMPTARGET_DEBUG=0 ./a.out 12001 12001 12001
```

The output on the particular GPU used (1-stack only) was as follows:

```txt
ALPHA =    1.0250   BETA =    0.7500

M1 =12001  N1 =12001  K1 =12001
Time (non-padded arrays)  =    0.2388 sec

M2 =12008  N2 =12008  K2 =12008
Time (padded arrays) =    0.1648 sec
```

The above shows that padding arrays a, b, and c, the time taken by the DGEMM calls was reduced from 0.2388 seconds to 0.1648 seconds.

## References

1. Developer Reference for Intel® oneAPI Math Kernel Library - C

2. Developer Reference for Intel® oneAPI Math Kernel Library - Fortran

3. Developer Reference for Intel® oneAPI Math Kernel Library - Fortran (Matrix Arguments)

4. Introducing Batch GEMM Operations

5. Intel® oneAPI Math Kernel Library Link Line Advisor

## Tools for Analyzing Performance of OpenMP Applications

There are various tools and mechanisms available that help in analyzing the performance of OpenMP programs and identifying bottlenecks.

• Intel<sup>®</sup> VTune<sup>TM</sup> Profiler

Intel<sup>®</sup> VTune<sup>TM</sup> Profiler can be used to analyze the performance of an application. It helps identify the most time-consuming (hot) functions in the application, whether the application is CPU- or GPU-bound, how effectively it offloads code to the GPU, and the best sections of code to optimize for sequential performance and for threaded performance, among other things. For more information about VTune Profiler, refer to the Intel® VTune™ Profiler User Guide.

• Intel<sup>®</sup> Level Zero and OpenCL Tracing Tool

The unitrace is a host and device activity tracing tool for Level Zero and OpenCL backend with support for SYCL and OpenMP GPU offload. For information about this tool, see the Performance Tools in Intel® Profiling Tools Interfaces for GPU section of this document.

When using unitrace with the -h and -d options, look at host- and device-side summaries at the end of the trace, under the headings “API Timing Summary” and “Device Timing Summary”, respectively.

Note that only explicit data transfers appear in the trace. Transfers of data allocated in Unified Shared Memory (USM) may not appear in the trace.

## Note:

unitrace is useful for confirming that offloading of oneMKL kernels has occurred. The environment variable OMP\_TARGET\_OFFLOAD=MANDATORY environment variable does not affect oneMKL, and therefore cannot be used to guarantee that offloading of oneMKL kernels has occurred. One way to check that offloading of oneMKL kernels (and other kernels) has occurred is to see which kernels are listed under “Device Timing Results” in the trace generated by unitrace.

SYCL\_PI\_TRACE=2 environment variable. The DPC++ Runtime Plugin Interface (PI) is an interface layer between the device-agnostic part of SYCL runtime and the device-specific runtime layers which control execution on devices. Setting SYCL\_PI\_TRACE=2 provides a trace of all PI calls made with arguments and returned values. For more information, see the DPC++ Runtime Plugin Interface documentation.

LIBOMPTARGET\_DEBUG=1 environment variable. LIBOMPTARGET\_DEBUG controls whether or not debugging information from libomptarget.so will be displayed.

The debugging output provides useful information about things like ND-range partitioning of loop iterations, data transfers between host and device, memory usage, etc., as shown in the :Using More GPU Resources and :Minimizing Data Transfers and Memory Allocations sections of this document.

For more information about LIBOMPTARGET\_DEBUG, see LLVM/OpenMP Runtimes.

Dump of compiler-generated assembly for the device. You can dump the compiler-generated assembly by setting the following two environment variables before doing Just-In-Time (JIT) compilation (or before running the program in the case of Ahead-Of-Time (AOT) compilation).

```typescript
export IGC_ShaderDumpEnable=1
export IGC_DumpToCustomDir=my_dump_dir
```

LLVM IR, assembly, and GenISA files will be dumped in the sub-directory named my\_dump\_dir (or any other name you choose). In this sub-directory, you will find a \*.asm file for each kernel. The filename indicates the source line number on which the kernel occurs. The header of the file provides information about SIMD width, compiler options, as well as other information.

Also, in my\_dump\_dir, you will find an file named HardwareCaps.txt that provides information about the GPU, such as Vector Engine count, thread count, slice count, etc.

For more information about the Intel<sup>®</sup> Graphics Compiler and a listing of available flags (environment variables) to control the compilation, see Intel® Graphics Compiler for OpenCL™ Configuration Flags for Linux Release

For additional information about debugging and profiling, refer to the Performance Profiling and Analysis section of this document.
